33823812	Functional genomics of a Spiroplasma associated with the carmine cochineals Dactylopius coccus and Dactylopius opuntiae.	Spiroplasma is a widely distributed endosymbiont of insects, arthropods, and plants. In insects, Spiroplasma colonizes the gut, hemolymph, and reproductive organs of the host. Previous metagenomic surveys of the domesticated carmine cochineal Dactylopius coccus and the wild cochineal D. opuntiae reported sequences of Spiroplasma associated with these insects. However, there is no analysis of the genomic capabilities and the interaction of this Spiroplasma with Dactylopius.	2021 Apr	Vera-Ponce León, Arturo; Vera-Ponce León, A; Vera-Ponce León; Dominguez-Mirazo, Marian; Dominguez-Mirazo, M; Dominguez-Mirazo; Bustamante-Brito, Rafael; Bustamante-Brito, R; Bustamante-Brito; Higareda-Alvear, Víctor; Higareda-Alvear, V; Higareda-Alvear; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	BMC Genomics
34584120	Phenotypic plasticity and a new small molecule are involved in a fungal-bacterial interaction.	Nitrogen-fixing bacteria have been extensively studied in the context of interactions with their host plants; however, little is known about the phenotypic plasticity of these microorganisms in nonmutualistic interactions with other eukaryotes. A dual-species coculture model was developed by using the plant symbiotic bacterium Rhizobium etli and the well-studied eukaryote Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a tractable system to explore the molecular mechanisms used by R. etli in nonmutual interactions. Here, we show that the fungus promotes the growth of the bacterium and that together, these organisms form a mixed biofilm whose biomass is ~ 3 times greater and is more structured than that of either single-species biofilm. We found that these biofilm traits are dependent on a symbiotic plasmid encoding elements involved in the phenotypic plasticity of the bacterium, mitochondrial function and in the production of a yeast-secreted sophoroside. Interestingly, the promoters of 3 genes that are key in plant bacteria-interaction (nifH, fixA and nodA) were induced when R. etli coexists with yeast. These results show that investigating interactions between species that do not naturally coexist is a new approach to discover gene functions and specialized metabolites in model organisms.	2021 09	Andrade-Domínguez, Andrés; Andrade-Domínguez, A; Andrade-Domínguez; Trejo-Hernández, Abigail; Trejo-Hernández, A; Trejo-Hernández; Vargas-Lagunas, Carmen; Vargas-Lagunas, C; Vargas-Lagunas; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara	Sci Rep
34238210	Predicting synchronized gene coexpression patterns from fibration symmetries in gene regulatory networks in bacteria.	Gene regulatory networks coordinate the expression of genes across physiological states and ensure a synchronized expression of genes in cellular subsystems, critical for the coherent functioning of cells. Here we address the question whether it is possible to predict gene synchronization from network structure alone. We have recently shown that synchronized gene expression can be predicted from symmetries in the gene regulatory networks described by the concept of symmetry fibrations. We showed that symmetry fibrations partition the genes into groups called fibers based on the symmetries of their 'input trees', the set of paths in the network through which signals can reach a gene. In idealized dynamic gene expression models, all genes in a fiber are perfectly synchronized, while less idealized models-with gene input functions differencing between genes-predict symmetry breaking and desynchronization.	2021 Jul	Leifer, Ian; Leifer, I; Leifer; Sánchez-Pérez, Mishael; Sánchez-Pérez, M; Sánchez-Pérez; Ishida, Cecilia; Ishida, C; Ishida; Makse, Hernán A; Makse, HA; Makse	BMC Bioinformatics
33976161	Variability of plasmid fitness effects contributes to plasmid persistence in bacterial communities.	Plasmid persistence in bacterial populations is strongly influenced by the fitness effects associated with plasmid carriage. However, plasmid fitness effects in wild-type bacterial hosts remain largely unexplored. In this study, we determined the fitness effects of the major antibiotic resistance plasmid pOXA-48_K8 in wild-type, ecologically compatible enterobacterial isolates from the human gut microbiota. Our results show that although pOXA-48_K8 produced an overall reduction in bacterial fitness, it produced small effects in most bacterial hosts, and even beneficial effects in several isolates. Moreover, genomic results showed a link between pOXA-48_K8 fitness effects and bacterial phylogeny, helping to explain plasmid epidemiology. Incorporating our fitness results into a simple population dynamics model revealed a new set of conditions for plasmid stability in bacterial communities, with plasmid persistence increasing with bacterial diversity and becoming less dependent on conjugation. These results help to explain the high prevalence of plasmids in the greatly diverse natural microbial communities.	2021 05	Alonso-Del Valle, Aida; Alonso-Del Valle, A; Alonso-Del Valle; León-Sampedro, Ricardo; León-Sampedro, R; León-Sampedro; Rodríguez-Beltrán, Jerónimo; Rodríguez-Beltrán, J; Rodríguez-Beltrán; DelaFuente, Javier; DelaFuente, J; DelaFuente; Hernández-García, Marta; Hernández-García, M; Hernández-García; Ruiz-Garbajosa, Patricia; Ruiz-Garbajosa, P; Ruiz-Garbajosa; Cantón, Rafael; Cantón, R; Cantón; Peña-Miller, Rafael; Peña-Miller, R; Peña-Miller; San Millán, Alvaro; San Millán, A; San Millán	Nat Commun
34868100	The <i>Lotus japonicus</i> ROP3 Is Involved in the Establishment of the Nitrogen-Fixing Symbiosis but Not of the Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Symbiosis.	Legumes form root mutualistic symbioses with some soil microbes promoting their growth, rhizobia, and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF). A conserved set of plant proteins rules the transduction of symbiotic signals from rhizobia and AMF in a so-called common symbiotic signaling pathway (CSSP). Despite considerable efforts and advances over the past 20 years, there are still key elements to be discovered about the establishment of these root symbioses. Rhizobia and AMF root colonization are possible after a deep cell reorganization. In the interaction between the model legume <i>Lotus japonicus</i> and <i>Mesorhizobium loti</i>, this reorganization has been shown to be dependent on a SCAR/Wave-like signaling module, including Rho-GTPase (ROP in plants). Here, we studied the potential role of ROP3 in the nitrogen-fixing symbiosis (NFS) as well as in the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis (AMS). We performed a detailed phenotypic study on the effects of the loss of a single ROP on the establishment of both root symbioses. Moreover, we evaluated the expression of key genes related to CSSP and to the rhizobial-specific pathway. Under our experimental conditions, <i>rop3</i> mutant showed less nodule formation at 7- and 21-days post inoculation as well as less microcolonies and a higher frequency of epidermal infection threads. However, AMF root colonization was not affected. These results suggest a role of ROP3 as a positive regulator of infection thread formation and nodulation in <i>L. japonicus</i>. In addition, CSSP gene expression was neither affected in NFS nor in AMS condition in <i>rop3</i> mutant. whereas the expression level of some genes belonging to the rhizobial-specific pathway, like <i>RACK1</i>, decreased in the NFS. In conclusion, ROP3 appears to be involved in the NFS, but is neither required for intra-radical growth of AMF nor arbuscule formation.	2021	García-Soto, Ivette; García-Soto, I; García-Soto; Boussageon, Raphael; Boussageon, R; Boussageon; Cruz-Farfán, Yareni Marlene; Cruz-Farfán, YM; Cruz-Farfán; Castro-Chilpa, Jesus Daniel; Castro-Chilpa, JD; Castro-Chilpa; Hernández-Cerezo, Liz Xochiquetzal; Hernández-Cerezo, LX; Hernández-Cerezo; Bustos-Zagal, Victor; Bustos-Zagal, V; Bustos-Zagal; Leija-Salas, Alfonso; Leija-Salas, A; Leija-Salas; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Torres, Martha; Torres, M; Torres; Formey, Damien; Formey, D; Formey; Courty, Pierre-Emmanuel; Courty, PE; Courty; Wipf, Daniel; Wipf, D; Wipf; Serrano, Mario; Serrano, M; Serrano; Tromas, Alexandre; Tromas, A; Tromas	Front Plant Sci
34804086	<i>Arabidopsis thaliana</i> Cuticle Composition Contributes to Differential Defense Response to <i>Botrytis cinerea</i>.	The chemical composition of a plant cuticle can change in response to various abiotic or biotic stresses and plays essential functions in disease resistance responses. <i>Arabidopsis thaliana</i> mutants altered in cutin content are resistant to <i>Botrytis cinerea</i>, presumably because of increased cuticular water and solute permeability, allowing for faster induction of defense responses. Within this context, our knowledge of wax mutants is limited against this pathogen. We tested the contribution of cuticular components to immunity to <i>B. cinerea</i> using mutants altered in either cutin or wax alone, or in both cutin and wax contents. We found that even all the tested mutants showed increased permeability and reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation in comparison with wild-type plants and that only cutin mutants showed resistance. To elucidate the early molecular mechanisms underlying cuticle-related immunity, we performed a transcriptomic analysis. A set of upregulated genes involved in cell wall integrity and accumulation of ROS were shared by the cutin mutants <i>bdg</i>, <i>lacs2-3</i>, and <i>eca2</i>, but not by the wax mutants <i>cer1-4</i> and <i>cer3-6</i>. Interestingly, these genes have recently been shown to be required in <i>B. cinerea</i> resistance. In contrast, we found the induction of genes involved in abiotic stress shared by the two wax mutants. Our study reveals new insight that the faster recognition of a pathogen by changes in cuticular permeability is not enough to induce resistance to <i>B. cinerea</i>, as has previously been hypothesized. In addition, our data suggest that mutants with resistant phenotype can activate other defense pathways, different from those canonical immune ones.	2021	Aragón, Wendy; Aragón, W; Aragón; Formey, Damien; Formey, D; Formey; Aviles-Baltazar, Norma Yaniri; Aviles-Baltazar, NY; Aviles-Baltazar; Torres, Martha; Torres, M; Torres; Serrano, Mario; Serrano, M; Serrano	Front Plant Sci
34833910	Non-Chemical Treatments for the Pre- and Post-Harvest Elicitation of Defense Mechanisms in the Fungi-Avocado Pathosystem.	The greatest challenge for the avocado (<i>Persea americana</i> Miller) industry is to maintain the quality of the fruit to meet consumer requirements. Anthracnose is considered the most important disease in this industry, and it is caused by different species of the genus <i>Colletotrichum</i>, although other pathogens can be equally important. The defense mechanisms that fruit naturally uses can be triggered in response to the attack of pathogenic microorganisms and also by the application of exogenous elicitors in the form of GRAS compounds. The elicitors are recognized by receptors called PRRs, which are proteins located on the avocado fruit cell surface that have high affinity and specificity for PAMPs, MAMPs, and DAMPs. The activation of defense-signaling pathways depends on ethylene, salicylic, and jasmonic acids, and it occurs hours or days after PTI activation. These defense mechanisms aim to drive the pathogen to death. The application of essential oils, antagonists, volatile compounds, chitosan and silicon has been documented in vitro and on avocado fruit, showing some of them to have elicitor and fungicidal effects that are reflected in the postharvest quality of the fruit and a lower incidence of diseases. The main focus of these studies has been on anthracnose diseases. This review presents the most relevant advances in the use of natural compounds with antifungal and elicitor effects in plant tissues.	2021 Nov	Herrera-González, Juan Antonio; Herrera-González, JA; Herrera-González; Bautista-Baños, Silvia; Bautista-Baños, S; Bautista-Baños; Serrano, Mario; Serrano, M; Serrano; Romanazzi, Gianfranco; Romanazzi, G; Romanazzi; Gutiérrez-Martínez, Porfirio; Gutiérrez-Martínez, P; Gutiérrez-Martínez	Molecules
34007059	Genomic evolution of the class Acidithiobacillia: deep-branching Proteobacteria living in extreme acidic conditions.	Members of the genus Acidithiobacillus, now ranked within the class Acidithiobacillia, are model bacteria for the study of chemolithotrophic energy conversion under extreme conditions. Knowledge of the genomic and taxonomic diversity of Acidithiobacillia is still limited. Here, we present a systematic analysis of nearly 100 genomes from the class sampled from a wide range of habitats. Some of these genomes are new and others have been reclassified on the basis of advanced genomic analysis, thus defining 19 Acidithiobacillia lineages ranking at different taxonomic levels. This work provides the most comprehensive classification and pangenomic analysis of this deep-branching class of Proteobacteria to date. The phylogenomic framework obtained illuminates not only the evolutionary past of this lineage, but also the molecular evolution of relevant aerobic respiratory proteins, namely the cytochrome bo<sub>3</sub> ubiquinol oxidases.	2021 11	Moya-Beltrán, Ana; Moya-Beltrán, A; Moya-Beltrán; Beard, Simón; Beard, S; Beard; Rojas-Villalobos, Camila; Rojas-Villalobos, C; Rojas-Villalobos; Issotta, Francisco; Issotta, F; Issotta; Gallardo, Yasna; Gallardo, Y; Gallardo; Ulloa, Ricardo; Ulloa, R; Ulloa; Giaveno, Alejandra; Giaveno, A; Giaveno; Degli Esposti, Mauro; Degli Esposti, M; Degli Esposti; Johnson, D Barrie; Johnson, DB; Johnson; Quatrini, Raquel; Quatrini, R; Quatrini	ISME J
34391010	Source of detritus and toxic elements of seabed sediments from Acapulco Bay (southern Mexico) and their ecological risk.	Total concentrations of Ba, Cd, Co, Cr, Cu, Mn, Ni, Pb, V, Zn, and As together with Sr and Pb isotopic compositions of seabed sediments from the worldwide famous tourist destination of Acapulco Bay, Guerrero (southern Mexico) were determined to reveal the origin of detritus and toxic elements (TEs), their potential natural and anthropogenic sources, elemental distribution and their ecological risk. Sediments derive entirely from the nearby Acapulco Granite and their concentrations of TEs are variable and rather low, although, several are above the Local Geochemical Baseline in some sites of the bay. The enrichment factor (EF) and Pb isotopes indicate that TEs derive from the Acapulco Granite with contributions of an anthropogenic source represented, very likely, by ship-bottom paints. Wastewaters are a significant source of Pb and Cu. The ecological risk of TEs is low and only Cu represents a moderate ecological risk in a few sites.	2021 Nov	Soledad, Bahena-Román Marbella; Soledad, BM; Soledad; Oscar, Talavera-Mendoza; Oscar, TM; Oscar; Sergio, García-Ibáñez; Sergio, GI; Sergio; Alicia, Sarmiento-Villagrana; Alicia, SV; Alicia; José Luis, Aguirre-Noyola; José Luis, AN; José Luis; Adrián, Salgado-Souto Sergio; Adrián, SS; Adrián; Catalina, Gómez-Espinosa; Catalina, GE; Catalina; Víctor, Rosas-Guerrero; Víctor, RG; Víctor	Mar Pollut Bull
34427721	Comparative Analysis of Skin Bacterial Diversity and Its Potential Antifungal Function Between Desert and Pine Forest Populations of Boreal Toads Anaxyrus boreas.	The skin microbiome in amphibians has gained a lot of attention as some of its members play a protective role against pathogens such as the fungus Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd). The composition of skin bacterial communities has been suggested as one of the factors explaining differences in susceptibility to Bd among amphibian species and populations. The boreal toad Anaxyrus boreas is known to be susceptible to Bd, and severe population declines in its southeastern range have been documented. However, throughout A. boreas distribution, populations present differences in susceptibility to Bd infections which may be associated with differences in skin microbial diversity. This study compared the skin bacterial diversity and Bd infection levels of A. boreas in one desert population and one pine forest population from Baja California, Mexico. We found that desert and pine forest toad populations exhibit differences in skin bacterial community structure but show similar Bd infection levels. Using a predictive method, we found that the abundance of bacteria with potential Bd-inhibitory properties differed between uninfected and infected individuals but not between populations. Our data suggest that several bacteria in the skin community may be offering protection from Bd infections in these A. boreas populations. This study provides foundational evidence for future studies seeking to understand the skin-microbial variation among boreal toads' populations and its relation with Bd susceptibility.	2021 Aug	Basanta, M Delia; Basanta, MD; Basanta; Rebollar, Eria A; Rebollar, EA; Rebollar; García-Castillo, Mirna G; García-Castillo, MG; García-Castillo; Parra Olea, Gabriela; Parra Olea, G; Parra Olea	Microb Ecol
34271321	Analysis of the immunomodulatory activity of excreted and secreted products from Haemonchus placei transition infective larvae (xL<sub>3</sub>).	The excretory/secretory (E/S) products released by infective transitory larvae (xL<sub>3</sub>) of Haemonchus placei have an important biological function in stimulating immune mechanisms during the invasive process. Our objective was to analyse the modulatory activity of 15 and 70 kDa E/S products from H. placei xL<sub>3</sub>. Both E/S products were collected from xL<sub>3</sub>in vitro cultures at 24 and 72 h. Proteins were confirmed by SDS-PAGE, and the corresponding spots were elicited by gel isoelectrofocusing (IEF) and characterised by mass spectrometry. Additionally, flow cytometry of CD4<sup>+</sup>/γδ<sup>+</sup> T cells and immune gene expression were performed by proliferation assays using each E/S product to stimulate lymphocyte and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from non-infected calves. The IEF results displayed two spots of 7.0 and 5.7 pI for the 15 and 70 kDa products, respectively. Additionally, 29 and 17 peptides from the 15 and 70 kDa E/S products, respectively, were identified with the hypothetical neurotransmitter and enzymatic functions necessary for larval development. The relative expression displayed upregulation of IL4, 5, 6, 8, 10, 13, IFNγ, and FCεR1A genes (from 2.0- to 17.6-fold, p < 0.05) stimulated by the 15 and 70 kDa proteins, indicating specific genes against haemonchosis. Although the percentage of median florescence intensity (MFI%) of CD4<sup>+</sup>/γδ<sup>+</sup> T cells did not change for both E/S products compared to the negative control and concanavalin-A stimulated cells as the positive control (p > 0.05), the 15-kDa protein reduced the levels of both T cells, and the 70-kDa proteins increased the γδ<sup>+</sup> cells slightly. Additionally, there was increased PBMCs proliferation by the 70 kDa proteins (p < 0.05), denoting the biological role of other immune cells. The 15 and 70 kDa protein E/S products from H. placei xL<sub>3</sub> showed modulation of the immune response, and although more studies are required, they indicate important functions in the host/parasite interaction.	2021 Oct	Maza-Lopez, Jocelyn; Maza-Lopez, J; Maza-Lopez; Contreras-Ochoa, Carla O; Contreras-Ochoa, CO; Contreras-Ochoa; Reyes-Guerrero, David E; Reyes-Guerrero, DE; Reyes-Guerrero; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Hernández-Ortíz, Magdalena; Hernández-Ortíz, M; Hernández-Ortíz; Olmedo-Juárez, Agustín; Olmedo-Juárez, A; Olmedo-Juárez; López-Arellano, Ma Eugenia; López-Arellano, ME; López-Arellano	Vet Parasitol
34461312	Lisen&Curate: A platform to facilitate gathering textual evidence for curation of regulation of transcription initiation in bacteria.	The number of published papers in biomedical research makes it rather impossible for a researcher to keep up to date. This is where manually curated databases contribute facilitating the access to knowledge. However, the structure required by databases strongly limits the type of valuable information that can be incorporated. Here, we present Lisen&Curate, a curation system that facilitates linking sentences or part of sentences (both considered sources) in articles with their corresponding curated objects, so that rich additional information of these objects is easily available to users. These sources are going to be offered both within RegulonDB and a new database, L-Regulon. To show the relevance of our work, two senior curators performed a curation of 31 articles on the regulation of transcription initiation of E. coli using Lisen&Curate. As a result, 194 objects were curated and 781 sources were recorded. We also found that these sources are useful to develop automatic approaches to detect objects in articles by observing word frequency patterns and by carrying out an open information extraction task. Sources may help to elaborate a controlled vocabulary of experimental methods. Finally, we discuss our ecosystem of interconnected applications, RegulonDB, L-Regulon, and Lisen&Curate, to facilitate the access to knowledge on regulation of transcription initiation in bacteria. We see our proposal as the starting point to change the way experimentalists connect a piece of knowledge with its evidence using RegulonDB.	2021 Nov-Dec	Díaz-Rodríguez, Martín; Díaz-Rodríguez, M; Díaz-Rodríguez; Lithgow-Serrano, Oscar; Lithgow-Serrano, O; Lithgow-Serrano; Guadarrama-García, Francisco; Guadarrama-García, F; Guadarrama-García; Tierrafría, Víctor H; Tierrafría, VH; Tierrafría; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Solano-Lira, Hilda; Solano-Lira, H; Solano-Lira; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Rinaldi, Fabio; Rinaldi, F; Rinaldi; Méndez-Cruz, Carlos-Francisco; Méndez-Cruz, CF; Méndez-Cruz; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Biochim Biophys Acta Gene Regul Mech
34638169	Improving classification of low-resource COVID-19 literature by using Named Entity Recognition.	Automatic document classification for highly interrelated classes is a demanding task that becomes more challenging when there is little labeled data for training. Such is the case of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) Clinical repository-a repository of classified and translated academic articles related to COVID-19 and relevant to the clinical practice-where a 3-way classification scheme is being applied to COVID-19 literature. During the 7th Biomedical Linked Annotation Hackathon (BLAH7) hackathon, we performed experiments to explore the use of named-entity-recognition (NER) to improve the classification. We processed the literature with OntoGene's Biomedical Entity Recogniser (OGER) and used the resulting identified Named Entities (NE) and their links to major biological databases as extra input features for the classifier. We compared the results with a baseline model without the OGER extracted features. In these proof-of-concept experiments, we observed a clear gain on COVID-19 literature classification. In particular, NE's origin was useful to classify document types and NE's type for clinical specialties. Due to the limitations of the small dataset, we can only conclude that our results suggests that NER would benefit this classification task. In order to accurately estimate this benefit, further experiments with a larger dataset would be needed.	2021 Sep	Lithgow-Serrano, Oscar; Lithgow-Serrano, O; Lithgow-Serrano; Cornelius, Joseph; Cornelius, J; Cornelius; Kanjirangat, Vani; Kanjirangat, V; Kanjirangat; Méndez-Cruz, Carlos-Francisco; Méndez-Cruz, CF; Méndez-Cruz; Rinaldi, Fabio; Rinaldi, F; Rinaldi	Genomics Inform
34167126	Molecular and Cellular Mechanisms Underlying Temperature-Dependent Sex Determination in Turtles.	The discovery in mammals that fetal testes are required in order to develop the male phenotype inspired research efforts to elucidate the mechanisms underlying gonadal sex determination and differentiation in vertebrates. A pioneer work in 1966 that demonstrated the influence of incubation temperature on sexual phenotype in some reptilian species triggered great interest in the environment's role as a modulator of plasticity in sex determination. Several chelonian species have been used as animal models to test hypotheses concerning the mechanisms involved in temperature-dependent sex determination (TSD). This brief review intends to outline the history of scientific efforts that corroborate our current understanding of the state-of-the-art in TSD using chelonian species as a reference.	2021	Merchant-Larios, Horacio; Merchant-Larios, H; Merchant-Larios; Díaz-Hernández, Verónica; Díaz-Hernández, V; Díaz-Hernández; Cortez, Diego; Cortez, D; Cortez	Sex Dev
34490328	Metaproteomic Insights Into the Microbial Community in Pozol.	Pozol is an acidic, refreshing, and non-alcoholic traditional Mayan beverage made with nixtamalized corn dough that is fermented spontaneously. The extensive analysis of the microbiology, biochemistry and metaproteomics of pozol allowed the construction of a comprehensive image of the fermentation system. The main changes in both the substrate and the microbiota occurred in the first 9 h of fermentation. The increase in microorganisms correlated with the drop in pH and with the decrease in the contents of carbohydrates, lipids, and nitrogen, which shows that this stage has the highest metabolic activity. Bacterial proteins were mainly represented by those of lactic acid bacteria, and among them, the proteins from genus <i>Streptococcus</i> was overwhelmingly the most abundant. Yeast proteins were present in all the analyzed samples, while proteins from filamentous fungi increased up to 48 h. The metaproteomic approach allowed us to identify several previously unknown enzyme complexes in the system. Additionally, enzymes for hydrolysis of starch, hemicellulose and cellulose were found, indicating that all these substrates can be used as a carbon source by the microbiota. Finally, enzymes related to the production of essential intermediates involved in the synthesis of organic acids, acetoin, butanediol, fatty acids and amino acids important for the generation of compounds that contribute to the sensorial quality of pozol, were found.	2021	Rizo, Jocelin; Rizo, J; Rizo; Guillén, Daniel; Guillén, D; Guillén; Díaz-Ruiz, Gloria; Díaz-Ruiz, G; Díaz-Ruiz; Wacher, Carmen; Wacher, C; Wacher; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Sánchez, Sergio; Sánchez, S; Sánchez; Rodríguez-Sanoja, Romina; Rodríguez-Sanoja, R; Rodríguez-Sanoja	Front Nutr
34458021	Diverse methanogens, bacteria and tannase genes in the feces of the endangered volcano rabbit (<i>Romerolagus diazi)</i>.	The volcano rabbit is the smallest lagomorph in Mexico, it is monotypic and endemic to the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt. It is classified as endangered by Mexican legislation and as critically endangered by the IUCN, in the Red List. <i>Romerolagus diazi</i> consumes large amounts of grasses, seedlings, shrubs, and trees. Pines and oaks contain tannins that can be toxic to the organisms which consume them. The volcano rabbit microbiota may be rich in bacteria capable of degrading fiber and phenolic compounds.	2021	Montes-Carreto, Leslie M; Montes-Carreto, LM; Montes-Carreto; Aguirre-Noyola, José Luis; Aguirre-Noyola, JL; Aguirre-Noyola; Solís-García, Itzel A; Solís-García, IA; Solís-García; Ortega, Jorge; Ortega, J; Ortega; Martinez-Romero, Esperanza; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Guerrero, José Antonio; Guerrero, JA; Guerrero	PeerJ
34421831	The Phospholipid <i>N</i>-Methyltransferase and Phosphatidylcholine Synthase Pathways and the ChoXWV Choline Uptake System Involved in Phosphatidylcholine Synthesis Are Widely Conserved in Most, but Not All <i>Brucella</i> Species.	The brucellae are facultative intracellular bacteria with a cell envelope rich in phosphatidylcholine (PC). PC is abundant in eukaryotes but rare in prokaryotes, and it has been proposed that <i>Brucella</i> uses PC to mimic eukaryotic-like features and avoid innate immune responses in the host. Two PC synthesis pathways are known in prokaryotes: the PmtA-catalyzed trimethylation of phosphatidylethanolamine and the direct linkage of choline to CDP-diacylglycerol catalyzed by the PC synthase Pcs. Previous studies have reported that <i>B. abortus</i> and <i>B. melitensis</i> possess non-functional PmtAs and that PC is synthesized exclusively <i>via</i> Pcs in these strains. A putative choline transporter ChoXWV has also been linked to PC synthesis in <i>B. abortus</i>. Here, we report that Pcs and Pmt pathways are active in <i>B. suis</i> biovar 2 and that a bioinformatics analysis of <i>Brucella</i> genomes suggests that PmtA is only inactivated in <i>B. abortus</i> and <i>B. melitensis</i> strains. We also show that ChoXWV is active in <i>B. suis</i> biovar 2 and conserved in all brucellae except <i>B. canis</i> and <i>B. inopinata.</i> Unexpectedly, the experimentally verified ChoXWV dysfunction in <i>B. canis</i> did not abrogate PC synthesis in a PmtA-deficient mutant, which suggests the presence of an unknown mechanism for obtaining choline for the Pcs pathway in <i>Brucella</i>. We also found that ChoXWV dysfunction did not cause attenuation in <i>B. suis</i> biovar 2. The results of these studies are discussed with respect to the proposed role of PC in <i>Brucella</i> virulence and how differential use of the Pmt and Pcs pathways may influence the interactions of these bacteria with their mammalian hosts.	2021	Aragón-Aranda, Beatriz; Aragón-Aranda, B; Aragón-Aranda; Palacios-Chaves, Leyre; Palacios-Chaves, L; Palacios-Chaves; Salvador-Bescós, Miriam; Salvador-Bescós, M; Salvador-Bescós; de Miguel, María Jesús; de Miguel, MJ; de Miguel; Muñoz, Pilar M; Muñoz, PM; Muñoz; Vences-Guzmán, Miguel Ángel; Vences-Guzmán, MÁ; Vences-Guzmán; Zúñiga-Ripa, Amaia; Zúñiga-Ripa, A; Zúñiga-Ripa; Lázaro-Antón, Leticia; Lázaro-Antón, L; Lázaro-Antón; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Moriyón, Ignacio; Moriyón, I; Moriyón; Iriarte, Maite; Iriarte, M; Iriarte; Conde-Álvarez, Raquel; Conde-Álvarez, R; Conde-Álvarez	Front Microbiol
33964629	PsrA positively regulates the unsaturated fatty acid synthesis operon fabAB in Azotobacter vinelandii.	In Pseudomonas spp. PsrA, a transcriptional activator of the rpoS gene, regulates fatty acid catabolism by repressing the fadBA5 β-oxidation operon. In Azotobacter vinelandii, a soil bacterium closely related to Pseudomonas species, PsrA is also an activator of rpoS expression, although its participation in the regulation of lipid metabolism has not been analyzed. In this work we found that inactivation of psrA had no effect on the expression of β-oxidation genes in this bacterium, but instead decreased expression of the unsaturated fatty acid biosynthetic operon fabAB (3-hydroxydecanoyl-ACP dehydratase/isomerase and 3-ketoacyl-ACP synthase I). This inactivation also reduced the unsaturated fatty acid content, as revealed by the thin-layer chromatographic analysis, and confirmed by gas chromatography; notably, there was also a lower content of cyclopropane fatty acids, which are synthesized from unsaturated fatty acids. The absence of PsrA has no effect on the growth rate, but showed loss of cell viability during long-term growth, in accordance with the role of these unsaturated and cyclopropane fatty acids in the protection of membranes. Finally, an electrophoretic mobility shift assay revealed specific binding of PsrA to the fabA promoter region, where a putative binding site for this regulator was located. Taken together, our data show that PsrA plays an important role in the regulation of unsaturated fatty acids metabolism in A. vinelandii by positively regulating fabAB.	2021 Aug	Velázquez-Sánchez, Claudia; Velázquez-Sánchez, C; Velázquez-Sánchez; Vences-Guzmán, Miguel Ángel; Vences-Guzmán, MÁ; Vences-Guzmán; Moreno, Soledad; Moreno, S; Moreno; Tinoco-Valencia, Raunel; Tinoco-Valencia, R; Tinoco-Valencia; Espín, Guadalupe; Espín, G; Espín; Guzmán, Josefina; Guzmán, J; Guzmán; Sahonero-Canavesi, Diana X; Sahonero-Canavesi, DX; Sahonero-Canavesi; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Segura, Daniel; Segura, D; Segura	Microbiol Res
33813711	Transcriptomic analysis of Burkholderia cenocepacia CEIB S5-2 during methyl parathion degradation.	Methyl parathion (MP) is a highly toxic organophosphorus pesticide associated with water, soil, and air pollution events. The identification and characterization of microorganisms capable of biodegrading pollutants are an important environmental task for bioremediation of pesticide impacted sites. The strain Burkholderia cenocepacia CEIB S5-2 is a bacterium capable of efficiently hydrolyzing MP and biodegrade p-nitrophenol (PNP), the main MP hydrolysis product. Due to the high PNP toxicity over microbial living forms, the reports on bacterial PNP biodegradation are scarce. According to the genomic data, the MP- and PNP-degrading ability observed in B. cenocepacia CEIB S5-2 is related to the presence of the methyl parathion-degrading gene (mpd) and the gene cluster pnpABA'E1E2FDC, which include the genes implicated in the PNP degradation. In this work, the transcriptomic analysis of the strain in the presence of MP revealed the differential expression of 257 genes, including all genes implicated in the PNP degradation, as well as a set of genes related to the sensing of environmental changes, the response to stress, and the degradation of aromatic compounds, such as translational regulators, membrane transporters, efflux pumps, and oxidative stress response genes. These findings suggest that these genes play an important role in the defense against toxic effects derived from the MP and PNP exposure. Therefore, B. cenocepacia CEIB S5-2 has a great potential for application in pesticide bioremediation approaches due to its biodegradation capabilities and the differential expression of genes for resistance to MP and PNP.	2021 Aug	Ortiz-Hernández, Ma Laura; Ortiz-Hernández, ML; Ortiz-Hernández; Gama-Martínez, Yitzel; Gama-Martínez, Y; Gama-Martínez; Fernández-López, Maikel; Fernández-López, M; Fernández-López; Castrejón-Godínez, María Luisa; Castrejón-Godínez, ML; Castrejón-Godínez; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Tovar-Sánchez, Efraín; Tovar-Sánchez, E; Tovar-Sánchez; Salazar, Emmanuel; Salazar, E; Salazar; Rodríguez, Alexis; Rodríguez, A; Rodríguez; Mussali-Galante, Patricia; Mussali-Galante, P; Mussali-Galante	Environ Sci Pollut Res Int
34394059	The EcoCyc Database in 2021.	The EcoCyc model-organism database collects and summarizes experimental data for <i>Escherichia coli</i> K-12. EcoCyc is regularly updated by the manual curation of individual database entries, such as genes, proteins, and metabolic pathways, and by the programmatic addition of results from select high-throughput analyses. Updates to the Pathway Tools software that supports EcoCyc and to the web interface that enables user access have continuously improved its usability and expanded its functionality. This article highlights recent improvements to the curated data in the areas of metabolism, transport, DNA repair, and regulation of gene expression. New and revised data analysis and visualization tools include an interactive metabolic network explorer, a circular genome viewer, and various improvements to the speed and usability of existing tools.	2021	Keseler, Ingrid M; Keseler, IM; Keseler; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Mackie, Amanda; Mackie, A; Mackie; Billington, Richard; Billington, R; Billington; Bonavides-Martínez, César; Bonavides-Martínez, C; Bonavides-Martínez; Caspi, Ron; Caspi, R; Caspi; Kothari, Anamika; Kothari, A; Kothari; Krummenacker, Markus; Krummenacker, M; Krummenacker; Midford, Peter E; Midford, PE; Midford; Muñiz-Rascado, Luis; Muñiz-Rascado, L; Muñiz-Rascado; Ong, Wai Kit; Ong, WK; Ong; Paley, Suzanne; Paley, S; Paley; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Subhraveti, Pallavi; Subhraveti, P; Subhraveti; Tierrafría, Víctor H; Tierrafría, VH; Tierrafría; Wolfe, Alan J; Wolfe, AJ; Wolfe; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Paulsen, Ian T; Paulsen, IT; Paulsen; Karp, Peter D; Karp, PD; Karp	Front Microbiol
34367203	ExoS/ChvI Two-Component Signal-Transduction System Activated in the Absence of Bacterial Phosphatidylcholine.	<i>Sinorhizobium meliloti</i> contains the negatively charged phosphatidylglycerol and cardiolipin as well as the zwitterionic phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) and phosphatidylcholine (PC) as major membrane phospholipids. In previous studies we had isolated <i>S. meliloti</i> mutants that lack PE or PC. Although mutants deficient in PE are able to form nitrogen-fixing nodules on alfalfa host plants, mutants lacking PC cannot sustain development of any nodules on host roots. Transcript profiles of mutants unable to form PE or PC are distinct; they differ from each other and they are different from the wild type profile. For example, a PC-deficient mutant of <i>S. meliloti</i> shows an increase of transcripts that encode enzymes required for succinoglycan biosynthesis and a decrease of transcripts required for flagellum formation. Indeed, a PC-deficient mutant is unable to swim and overproduces succinoglycan. Some suppressor mutants, that regain swimming and form normal levels of succinoglycan, are altered in the ExoS sensor. Our findings suggest that the lack of PC in the sinorhizobial membrane activates the ExoS/ChvI two-component regulatory system. ExoS/ChvI constitute a molecular switch in <i>S. meliloti</i> for changing from a free-living to a symbiotic life style. The periplasmic repressor protein ExoR controls ExoS/ChvI function and it is thought that proteolytic ExoR degradation would relieve repression of ExoS/ChvI thereby switching on this system. However, as ExoR levels are similar in wild type, PC-deficient mutant and suppressor mutants, we propose that lack of PC in the bacterial membrane provokes directly a conformational change of the ExoS sensor and thereby activation of the ExoS/ChvI two-component system.	2021	Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Vera-Cruz, Diana; Vera-Cruz, D; Vera-Cruz; Medeot, Daniela B; Medeot, DB; Medeot; Martínez-Aguilar, Lourdes; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar; Sahonero-Canavesi, Diana X; Sahonero-Canavesi, DX; Sahonero-Canavesi; Weidner, Stefan; Weidner, S; Weidner; Pühler, Alfred; Pühler, A; Pühler; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara	Front Plant Sci
34282943	Accessory Genomic Epidemiology of Cocirculating Acinetobacter baumannii Clones.	Acinetobacter baumannii has become one of the most important multidrug-resistant nosocomial pathogens all over the world. Nonetheless, very little is known about the diversity of A. baumannii lineages coexisting in hospital settings. Here, using whole-genome sequencing, epidemiological data, and antimicrobial susceptibility tests, we uncover the transmission dynamics of extensive and multidrug-resistant A. baumannii in a tertiary hospital over a decade. Our core genome phylogeny of almost 300 genomes suggests that there were several introductions of lineages from international clone 2 into the hospital. The molecular dating analysis shows that these introductions happened in 2006, 2007, and 2013. Furthermore, using the accessory genome, we show that these lineages were extensively disseminated across many wards in the hospital. Our results demonstrate that accessory genome variation can be a very powerful tool for conducting genomic epidemiology. We anticipate future studies employing the accessory genome along with the core genome as a powerful phylogenomic strategy to track bacterial transmissions over very short microevolutionary scales. <b>IMPORTANCE</b> Whole-genome sequencing for epidemiological investigations (genomic epidemiology) has been of paramount importance to understand the transmission dynamics of many bacterial (and nonbacterial) pathogens. Commonly, variation in the core genome, single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), is employed to carry out genomic epidemiology. However, at very short periods of time, the core genome might not have accumulated enough variation (sufficient SNPs) to tell apart isolates. In this scenario, gene content variation in the accessory genome can be an option to conduct genomic epidemiology. Here, we used the accessory genome, as well as the core genome, to uncover the transmission dynamics of extensive and multidrug-resistant A. baumannii in a tertiary hospital for a decade. Our study shows that accessory genome variation can be a very powerful tool for conducting genomic epidemiology.	2021 Aug	Mateo-Estrada, Valeria; Mateo-Estrada, V; Mateo-Estrada; Fernández-Vázquez, José Luis; Fernández-Vázquez, JL; Fernández-Vázquez; Moreno-Manjón, Julia; Moreno-Manjón, J; Moreno-Manjón; Hernández-González, Ismael L; Hernández-González, IL; Hernández-González; Rodríguez-Noriega, Eduardo; Rodríguez-Noriega, E; Rodríguez-Noriega; Morfín-Otero, Rayo; Morfín-Otero, R; Morfín-Otero; Alcántar-Curiel, María Dolores; Alcántar-Curiel, MD; Alcántar-Curiel; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez	mSystems
34203422	<i>Corynebacterium glutamicum</i> Regulation beyond Transcription: Organizing Principles and Reconstruction of an Extended Regulatory Network Incorporating Regulations Mediated by Small RNA and Protein-Protein Interactions.	<i>Corynebacterium glutamicum</i> is a Gram-positive bacterium found in soil where the condition changes demand plasticity of the regulatory machinery. The study of such machinery at the global scale has been challenged by the lack of data integration. Here, we report three regulatory network models for <i>C. glutamicum</i>: <i>strong</i> (3040 interactions) constructed solely with regulations previously supported by directed experiments; <i>all evidence</i> (4665 interactions) containing the <i>strong</i> network, regulations previously supported by nondirected experiments, and protein-protein interactions with a direct effect on gene transcription; <i>sRNA</i> (5222 interactions) containing the <i>all evidence</i> network and sRNA-mediated regulations. Compared to the previous version (2018), the <i>strong</i> and <i>all evidence</i> networks increased by 75 and 1225 interactions, respectively. We analyzed the system-level components of the three networks to identify how they differ and compared their structures against those for the networks of more than 40 species. The inclusion of the sRNA-mediated regulations changed the proportions of the system-level components and increased the number of modules but decreased their size. The <i>C. glutamicum</i> regulatory structure contrasted with other bacterial regulatory networks. Finally, we used the <i>strong</i> networks of three model organisms to provide insights and future directions of the <i>C.</i><i>glutamicum</i> regulatory network characterization.	2021 Jun	Escorcia-Rodríguez, Juan M; Escorcia-Rodríguez, JM; Escorcia-Rodríguez; Tauch, Andreas; Tauch, A; Tauch; Freyre-González, Julio A; Freyre-González, JA; Freyre-González	Microorganisms
34097872	Crossing the lipid divide.	Archaeal membrane lipids are structurally different from bacterial and eukaryotic membrane lipids, but little is known about the enzymes involved in their synthesis. In a recent study, Exterkate et al. identified and characterized a cardiolipin synthase from the archaeon Methanospirillum hungatei. This enzyme can synthesize archaeal, bacterial, and mixed archaeal/bacterial cardiolipin species from a wide variety of substrates, some of which are not even naturally occurring. This discovery could revolutionize synthetic lipid biology, being used to construct a variety of lipids with nonnatural head groups and mixed archaeal/bacterial hydrophobic chains.	2021 07	Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	J Biol Chem
33558688	Spatial patterns in phage-Rhizobium coevolutionary interactions across regions of common bean domestication.	Bacteriophages play significant roles in the composition, diversity, and evolution of bacterial communities. Despite their importance, it remains unclear how phage diversity and phage-host interactions are spatially structured. Local adaptation may play a key role. Nitrogen-fixing symbiotic bacteria, known as rhizobia, have been shown to locally adapt to domesticated common bean at its Mesoamerican and Andean sites of origin. This may affect phage-rhizobium interactions. However, knowledge about the diversity and coevolution of phages with their respective Rhizobium populations is lacking. Here, through the study of four phage-Rhizobium communities in Mexico and Argentina, we show that both phage and host diversity is spatially structured. Cross-infection experiments demonstrated that phage infection rates were higher overall in sympatric rhizobia than in allopatric rhizobia except for one Argentinean community, indicating phage local adaptation and host maladaptation. Phage-host interactions were shaped by the genetic identity and geographic origin of both the phage and the host. The phages ranged from specialists to generalists, revealing a nested network of interactions. Our results suggest a key role of local adaptation to resident host bacterial communities in shaping the phage genetic and phenotypic composition, following a similar spatial pattern of diversity and coevolution to that in the host.	2021 07	Van Cauwenberghe, Jannick; Van Cauwenberghe, J; Van Cauwenberghe; Santamaría, Rosa I; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Juárez, Soledad; Juárez, S; Juárez; Ducci, Maria Antonella; Ducci, MA; Ducci; Figueroa Fleming, Trinidad; Figueroa Fleming, T; Figueroa Fleming; Etcheverry, Angela Virginia; Etcheverry, AV; Etcheverry; González, Víctor; González, V; González	ISME J
34239533	Rhizobial Volatiles: Potential New Players in the Complex Interkingdom Signaling With Legumes.	Bacteria release a wide range of volatile compounds that play important roles in intermicrobial and interkingdom communication. Volatile metabolites emitted by rhizobacteria can promote plant growth and increase plant resistance to both biotic and abiotic stresses. Rhizobia establish beneficial nitrogen-fixing symbiosis with legume plants in a process starting with a chemical dialog in the rhizosphere involving various diffusible compounds. Despite being one of the most studied plant-interacting microorganisms, very little is known about volatile compounds produced by rhizobia and their biological/ecological role. Evidence indicates that plants can perceive and respond to volatiles emitted by rhizobia. In this perspective, we present recent data that open the possibility that rhizobial volatile compounds have a role in symbiotic interactions with legumes and discuss future directions that could shed light onto this area of investigation.	2021	Soto, María J; Soto, MJ; Soto; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Romero-Puertas, María C; Romero-Puertas, MC; Romero-Puertas; van Dillewijn, Pieter; van Dillewijn, P; van Dillewijn	Front Plant Sci
34211444	Respiratory Heme A-Containing Oxidases Originated in the Ancestors of Iron-Oxidizing Bacteria.	Respiration is a major trait shaping the biology of many environments. Cytochrome oxidase containing heme A (COX) is a common terminal oxidase in aerobic bacteria and is the only one in mammalian mitochondria. The synthesis of heme A is catalyzed by heme A synthase (CtaA/Cox15), an enzyme that most likely coevolved with COX. The evolutionary origin of COX in bacteria has remained unknown. Using extensive sequence and phylogenetic analysis, we show that the ancestral type of heme A synthases is present in iron-oxidizing Proteobacteria such as <i>Acidithiobacillus</i> spp. These bacteria also contain a deep branching form of the major COX subunit (COX1) and an ancestral variant of CtaG, a protein that is specifically required for COX biogenesis. Our work thus suggests that the ancestors of extant iron-oxidizers were the first to evolve COX. Consistent with this conclusion, acidophilic iron-oxidizing prokaryotes lived on emerged land around the time for which there is the earliest geochemical evidence of aerobic respiration on earth. Hence, ecological niches of iron oxidation have apparently promoted the evolution of aerobic respiration.	2021	Degli Esposti, Mauro; Degli Esposti, M; Degli Esposti; Moya-Beltrán, Ana; Moya-Beltrán, A; Moya-Beltrán; Quatrini, Raquel; Quatrini, R; Quatrini; Hederstedt, Lars; Hederstedt, L; Hederstedt	Front Microbiol
34163511	Control of the Rhizobia Nitrogen-Fixing Symbiosis by Common Bean MADS-Domain/AGL Transcription Factors.	Plants MADS-domain/AGL proteins constitute a large transcription factor (TF) family that controls the development of almost every plant organ. We performed a phylogeny of (<i>ca</i>. 500) MADS-domain proteins from Arabidopsis and four legume species. We identified clades with Arabidopsis MADS-domain proteins known to participate in root development that grouped legume MADS-proteins with similar high expression in roots and nodules. In this work, we analyzed the role of AGL transcription factors in the common bean (<i>Phaseolus vulgaris</i>) - <i>Rhizobium etli</i> N-fixing symbiosis. Sixteen <i>P. vulgaris AGL</i> genes (<i>PvAGL</i>), out of 93 family members, are expressed - at different levels - in roots and nodules. From there, we selected the <i>PvAGL</i> gene denominated <i>PvFUL</i>-like for overexpression or silencing in composite plants, with transgenic roots and nodules, that were used for phenotypic analysis upon inoculation with <i>Rhizobium etli</i>. Because of sequence identity in the DNA sequence used for RNAi-<i>FUL-</i>like construct, roots, and nodules expressing this construct -referred to as RNAi_<i>AGL</i>- showed lower expression of other five <i>PvAGL</i> genes highly expressed in roots/nodules. Contrasting with <i>PvFUL</i>-like overexpressing plants, rhizobia-inoculated plants expressing the RNAi_<i>AGL</i> silencing construct presented affection in the generation and growth of transgenic roots from composite plants, both under non-inoculated or rhizobia-inoculated condition. Furthermore, the rhizobia-inoculated plants showed decreased rhizobial infection concomitant with the lower expression level of early symbiotic genes and increased number of small, ineffective nodules that indicate an alteration in the autoregulation of the nodulation symbiotic process. We propose that the positive effects of PvAGL TF in the rhizobia symbiotic processes result from its potential interplay with NIN, the master symbiotic TF regulator, that showed a CArG-box consensus DNA sequence recognized for DNA binding of AGL TF and presented an increased or decreased expression level in roots from non-inoculated plants transformed with OE_<i>FUL</i> or RNAi_<i>AGL</i> construct, respectively. Our work contributes to defining novel transcriptional regulators for the common bean - rhizobia N-fixing symbiosis, a relevant process for sustainable agriculture.	2021	Ayra, Litzy; Ayra, L; Ayra; Reyero-Saavedra, María Del Rocio; Reyero-Saavedra, MDR; Reyero-Saavedra; Isidra-Arellano, Mariel C; Isidra-Arellano, MC; Isidra-Arellano; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Ramírez, Mario; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Leija, Alfonso; Leija, A; Leija; Fuentes, Sara-Isabel; Fuentes, SI; Fuentes; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Valdés-López, Oswaldo; Valdés-López, O; Valdés-López; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	Front Plant Sci
33846117	A Trigger Phosphodiesterase Modulates the Global c-di-GMP Pool, Motility, and Biofilm Formation in Vibrio parahaemolyticus.	Vibrio parahaemolyticus cells transit from free-swimming to surface adapted lifestyles, such as swarming colonies and three-dimensional biofilms. These transitions are regulated by sensory modules and regulatory networks that involve the second messenger cyclic diguanylate monophosphate (c-di-GMP). In this work, we show that a previously uncharacterized c-di-GMP phosphodiesterase (VP1881) from V. parahaemolyticus plays an important role in modulating the c-di-GMP pool. We found that the product of VP1881 promotes its own expression when the levels of c-di-GMP are low or when the phosphodiesterase (PDE) is catalytically inactive. This behavior has been observed in a class of c-di-GMP receptors called trigger phosphodiesterases, and hence we named the product of VP1881 TpdA, for <u>t</u>rigger <u>p</u>hospho<u>d</u>iesterase <u>A</u>. The absence of <i>tpdA</i> showed a negative effect on swimming motility while, its overexpression from an isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG)-inducible promoter showed a positive effect on both swimming and swarming motility and a negative effect on biofilm formation. Changes in TpdA abundance altered the expression of representative polar and lateral flagellar genes, as well as that of the biofilm-related gene <i>cpsA</i>. Our results also revealed that autoactivation of the native P<i><sub>tpdA</sub></i> promoter is sufficient to alter c-di-GMP signaling responses such as swarming and biofilm formation in V. parahaemolyticus, an observation that could have important implications in the dynamics of these social behaviors. <b>IMPORTANCE</b> c-di-GMP trigger phosphodiesterases (PDEs) could play a key role in controlling the heterogeneity of biofilm matrix composition, a property that endows characteristics that are potentially relevant for sustaining integrity and functionality of biofilms in a variety of natural environments. Trigger PDEs are not always easy to identify based on their sequence, and hence not many examples of these type of signaling proteins have been reported in the literature. Here, we report on the identification of a novel trigger PDE in V. parahaemolyticus and provide evidence suggesting that its autoactivation could play an important role in the progression of swarming motility and biofilm formation, multicellular behaviors that are important for the survival and dissemination of this environmental pathogen.	2021 06	Martínez-Méndez, Raquel; Martínez-Méndez, R; Martínez-Méndez; Camacho-Hernández, Diego A; Camacho-Hernández, DA; Camacho-Hernández; Sulvarán-Guel, Elizabeth; Sulvarán-Guel, E; Sulvarán-Guel; Zamorano-Sánchez, David; Zamorano-Sánchez, D; Zamorano-Sánchez	J Bacteriol
33930111	The influence of maize genotype on the rhizosphere eukaryotic community.	The microbiota colonizing the rhizosphere contributes to plant growth, productivity, carbon sequestration and phytoremediation. Several studies address plant-associated bacteria; however, few studies analyze the effect of plant genotype on the eukaryotic community. Here, we analyzed the eukaryotic composition of maize rhizosphere from three different plant landraces and one inbred line grown in the same soil (common garden approach). This experimental design, coupled with 18S rDNA gene amplicon sequencing, allowed us to test the influence of maize and its genotype on the rhizosphere's eukaryotic community. We found that plant growth modified the eukaryotic community in soil, as diversity comparisons between maize rhizosphere and unplanted soil revealed significantly different eukaryotic composition. Various genera of nematodes and fungi, predominantly bacterial feeding nematodes and mycorrhizal fungi among other taxa, were increased in the rhizosphere samples. We also observed that maize genotype differentially shaped the relative abundance of the following fungal families in the rhizosphere: Acaulosporaceae, Aspergillaceae, Chaetomiaceae, Claroideoglomeraceae, Corticiaceae, Mortierellaceae, Trichocomaceae and Trichomeriaceae. Thus, plant genotype has a selective influence on establishing fungal communities in the rhizosphere. This study emphasizes the importance of an integrated consideration of plant genetics for future agricultural applications of microbes to crops.	2021 05	Matus-Acuña, Violeta; Matus-Acuña, V; Matus-Acuña; Caballero-Flores, Gustavo; Caballero-Flores, G; Caballero-Flores; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	FEMS Microbiol Ecol
33635432	A novel vieuvirus from multidrug-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii.	Bacteriophages are considered the most abundant biological entities on earth, and they are able to modulate the populations of their bacterial hosts. Although the potential of bacteriophages has been accepted as an alternative strategy to combat multidrug-resistant pathogenic bacteria, there still exists a considerable knowledge gap regarding their genetic diversity, which hinders their use as antimicrobial agents. In this study, we undertook a genomic and phylogenetic characterization of the phage Ab11510-phi, which was isolated from a multidrug-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii strain (Ab11510). We found that Ab11510-phi has a narrow host range and belongs to a small group of transposable phages of the genus Vieuvirus that have only been reported to infect Acinetobacter bacteria. Finally, we showed that Ab11510-phi (as well as other vieuvirus phages) has a high level of mosaicism. On a broader level, we demonstrate that comparative genomics and phylogenetic analysis are necessary tools for the proper characterization of phage diversity.	2021 May	López-Leal, Gamaliel; López-Leal, G; López-Leal; Reyes-Muñoz, Alejandro; Reyes-Muñoz, A; Reyes-Muñoz; Santamaria, Rosa Isela; Santamaria, RI; Santamaria; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Pérez-Monter, Carlos; Pérez-Monter, C; Pérez-Monter; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez	Arch Virol
33893080	Effect of HPV 16 E6 Oncoprotein Variants on the Alterations of the Proteome of C33A Cells.	The E6 genotypic variants of HPV 16 identified in lesions of women with cervical cancer (CC) in Southern of Mexico include the E-G350, AAa, AAc, E-C188/G350, and E-A176/G350, transcriptomic analysis cells transfected with those variants showed to induce differential expression of the host genes involved in the development of CC, the aim of this work was to understand how the over-expression of the E6 oncoprotein and its variants can induce molecular mechanisms that lead to more aggressive HPV 16 phenotypes in cervical cancer and which proteins could be associated with the process.	2021 May-Jun	Garibay-Cerdenares, Olga Lilia; Garibay-Cerdenares, OL; Garibay-Cerdenares; Sánchez-Meza, Luz Victoria; Sánchez-Meza, LV; Sánchez-Meza; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Hernández-Ortíz, Magdalena; Hernández-Ortíz, M; Hernández-Ortíz; Martínez-Batallar, Gabriel; Martínez-Batallar, G; Martínez-Batallar; Torres-Rojas, Francisco Israel; Torres-Rojas, FI; Torres-Rojas; Mendoza-Catalán, Miguel Ángel; Mendoza-Catalán, MÁ; Mendoza-Catalán; Moral-Hernández, Oscar Del; Moral-Hernández, OD; Moral-Hernández; Leyva-Vázquez, Marco Antonio; Leyva-Vázquez, MA; Leyva-Vázquez; Illades-Aguiar, Berenice; Illades-Aguiar, B; Illades-Aguiar	Cancer Genomics Proteomics
34066536	Gadolinium Protects <i>Arabidopsis thaliana</i> against <i>Botrytis cinerea</i> through the Activation of JA/ET-Induced Defense Responses.	Plant food production is severely affected by fungi; to cope with this problem, farmers use synthetic fungicides. However, the need to reduce fungicide application has led to a search for alternatives, such as biostimulants. Rare-earth elements (REEs) are widely used as biostimulants, but their mode of action and their potential as an alternative to synthetic fungicides have not been fully studied. Here, the biostimulant effect of gadolinium (Gd) is explored using the plant-pathosystem <i>Arabidopsis thaliana</i>-<i>Botrytis cinerea.</i> We determine that Gd induces local, systemic, and long-lasting plant defense responses to <i>B. cinerea</i>, without affecting fungal development. The physiological changes induced by Gd have been related to its structural resemblance to calcium. However, our results show that the calcium-induced defense response is not sufficient to protect plants against <i>B. cinerea</i>, compared to Gd. Furthermore, a genome-wide transcriptomic analysis shows that Gd induces plant defenses and modifies early and late defense responses. However, the resistance to <i>B. cinerea</i> is dependent on JA/ET-induced responses. These data support the conclusion that Gd can be used as a biocontrol agent for <i>B. cinerea</i>. These results are a valuable tool to uncover the molecular mechanisms induced by REEs.	2021 May	Batista-Oliveira, Juliana Santos; Batista-Oliveira, JS; Batista-Oliveira; Formey, Damien; Formey, D; Formey; Torres, Martha; Torres, M; Torres; Aragón, Wendy; Aragón, W; Aragón; Romero-Contreras, Yordan Jhovani; Romero-Contreras, YJ; Romero-Contreras; Maruri-López, Israel; Maruri-López, I; Maruri-López; Tromas, Alexandre; Tromas, A; Tromas; Schwan-Estrada, Kátia Regina Freitas; Schwan-Estrada, KRF; Schwan-Estrada; Serrano, Mario; Serrano, M; Serrano	Int J Mol Sci
33626217	Identification of the Flavobacterium johnsoniae cysteate-fatty acyl transferase required for capnine synthesis and for efficient gliding motility.	Sulfonolipids (SLs) are bacterial lipids that are structurally related to sphingolipids. Synthesis of this group of lipids seems to be mainly restricted to Flavobacterium, Cytophaga and other members of the phylum Bacteroidetes. These lipids have a wide range of biological activities: they can induce multicellularity in choanoflagellates, act as von Willebrand factor receptor antagonists, inhibit DNA polymerase, or function as tumour suppressing agents. In Flavobacterium johnsoniae, their presence seems to be required for efficient gliding motility. Until now, no genes/enzymes involved in SL synthesis have been identified, which has been limiting for the study of some of the biological effects these lipids have. Here, we describe the identification of the cysteate-fatty acyl transferase Fjoh_2419 required for synthesis of the SL precursor capnine in F. johnsoniae. This enzyme belongs to the α-oxoamine synthase family similar to serine palmitoyl transferases, 2-amino-3-oxobutyrate coenzyme A ligase and 8-amino-7-oxononanoate synthases. Expression of the gene fjoh_2419 in Escherichia coli caused the formation of a capnine-derived molecule. Flavobacterium johnsoniae mutants deficient in fjoh_2419 lacked SLs and were more sensitive to many antibiotics. Mutant growth was not affected in liquid medium but the cells exhibited defects in gliding motility.	2021 05	Vences-Guzmán, Miguel Ángel; Vences-Guzmán, MÁ; Vences-Guzmán; Peña-Miller, Rafael; Peña-Miller, R; Peña-Miller; Hidalgo-Aguilar, Nancy Adriana; Hidalgo-Aguilar, NA; Hidalgo-Aguilar; Vences-Guzmán, Maritza Lorena; Vences-Guzmán, ML; Vences-Guzmán; Guan, Ziqiang; Guan, Z; Guan; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	Environ Microbiol
33922604	Molecular Detection and Characterization of Porcine Epidemic Diarrhea Virus and Porcine Aichivirus C Coinfection in México.	Swine enteric viral infections are responsible for substantial economic losses in the pork industry worldwide. Porcine epidemic diarrhea (PEDV) is one of the main causative agents of diarrhea in lactating pigs, and reports of PEDV coinfection with other enteric viruses highlight the importance of viral interactions for disease presentation and outcomes. Using next-generation sequencing (NGS) and sequence analyses from samples taken from piglets with acute diarrhea, we explored the possible interactions between PEDV and other less reported pathogens. PEDV coinfection with porcine kobuvirus (PKV) was detected in 36.4% (27/74) of samples. Full genomes from porcine coronavirus and kobuvirus were obtained, as was a partial porcine sapovirus genome (PSaV). The phylogenetic results show the clustering of these strains corresponding to the geographical relationship. To our knowledge, this is the first full genome and isolation report for porcine kobuvirus in México, as well as the first phylogenetic analysis for porcine sapovirus in the country. The NGS approach provides a better perspective of circulating viruses and other pathogens in affected production units.	2021 04	García-Hernández, Montserrat-Elemi; García-Hernández, ME; García-Hernández; Trujillo-Ortega, María-Elena; Trujillo-Ortega, ME; Trujillo-Ortega; Alcaraz-Estrada, Sofía-Lizbeth; Alcaraz-Estrada, SL; Alcaraz-Estrada; Lozano-Aguirre-Beltrán, Luis; Lozano-Aguirre-Beltrán, L; Lozano-Aguirre-Beltrán; Sandoval-Jaime, Carlos; Sandoval-Jaime, C; Sandoval-Jaime; Taboada-Ramírez, Blanca Itzel; Taboada-Ramírez, BI; Taboada-Ramírez; Sarmiento-Silva, Rosa-Elena; Sarmiento-Silva, RE; Sarmiento-Silva	Viruses
34067853	Physiological and Genomic Analysis of <i>Bacillus pumilus</i> UAMX Isolated from the Gastrointestinal Tract of Overweight Individuals.	The study aimed to evaluate the metabolism and resistance to the gastrointestinal tract conditions of <i>Bacillus pumilus</i> UAMX (BP-UAMX) isolated from overweight individuals using genomic tools. Specifically, we assessed its ability to metabolize various carbon sources, its resistance to low pH exposure, and its growth in the presence of bile salts. The genomic and bioinformatic analyses included the prediction of gene and protein metabolic functions, a pan-genome and phylogenomic analysis. BP-UAMX survived at pH 3, while bile salts (0.2-0.3% <i>w/v</i>) increased its growth rate. Moreover, it showed the ability to metabolize simple and complex carbon sources (glucose, starch, carboxymethyl-cellulose, inulin, and tributyrin), showing a differentiated electrophoretic profile. Genome was assembled into a single contig, with a high percentage of genes and proteins associated with the metabolism of amino acids, carbohydrates, and lipids. Antibiotic resistance genes were detected, but only one beta-Lactam resistance protein related to the inhibition of peptidoglycan biosynthesis was identified. The pan-genome of BP-UAMX is still open with phylogenetic similarities with other <i>Bacillus</i> of human origin. Therefore, BP-UAMX seems to be adapted to the intestinal environment, with physiological and genomic analyses demonstrating the ability to metabolize complex carbon sources, the strain has an open pan-genome with continuous evolution and adaptation.	2021 May	Reyes-Cortes, José Luis; Reyes-Cortes, JL; Reyes-Cortes; Azaola-Espinosa, Alejandro; Azaola-Espinosa, A; Azaola-Espinosa; Lozano-Aguirre, Luis; Lozano-Aguirre, L; Lozano-Aguirre; Ponce-Alquicira, Edith; Ponce-Alquicira, E; Ponce-Alquicira	Microorganisms
33925391	The Population Structure of <i>Borrelia lusitaniae</i> Is Reflected by a Population Division of Its <i>Ixodes</i> Vector.	Populations of vector-borne pathogens are shaped by the distribution and movement of vector and reservoir hosts. To study what impact host and vector association have on tick-borne pathogens, we investigated the population structure of <i>Borrelia lusitaniae</i> using multilocus sequence typing (MLST). Novel sequences were acquired from questing ticks collected in multiple North African and European locations and were supplemented by publicly available sequences at the Borrelia Pubmlst database (accessed on 11 February 2020). Population structure of <i>B. lusitaniae</i> was inferred using clustering and network analyses. Maximum likelihood phylogenies for two molecular tick markers (the mitochondrial 16S rRNA locus and a nuclear locus, Tick-receptor of outer surface protein A, <i>trospA</i>) were used to confirm the morphological species identification of collected ticks. Our results confirmed that <i>B. lusitaniae</i> does indeed form two distinguishable populations: one containing mostly European samples and the other mostly Portuguese and North African samples. Of interest, Portuguese samples clustered largely based on being from north (European) or south (North African) of the river Targus. As two different <i>Ixodes</i> species (i.e., <i>I. ricinus</i> and <i>I. inopinatus</i>) may vector <i>Borrelia</i> in these regions, reference samples were included for <i>I. inopinatus</i> but did not form monophyletic clades in either tree, suggesting some misidentification. Even so, the <i>trospA</i> phylogeny showed a monophyletic clade containing tick samples from Northern Africa and Portugal south of the river Tagus suggesting a population division in <i>Ixodes</i> on this locus. The pattern mirrored the clustering of <i>B. lusitaniae</i> samples, suggesting a potential co-evolution between tick and <i>Borrelia</i> populations that deserve further investigation.	2021 Apr	Norte, Ana Cláudia; Norte, AC; Norte; Boyer, Pierre H; Boyer, PH; Boyer; Castillo-Ramirez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramirez, S; Castillo-Ramirez; Chvostáč, Michal; Chvostáč, M; Chvostáč; Brahami, Mohand O; Brahami, MO; Brahami; Rollins, Robert E; Rollins, RE; Rollins; Woudenberg, Tom; Woudenberg, T; Woudenberg; Didyk, Yuliya M; Didyk, YM; Didyk; Derdakova, Marketa; Derdakova, M; Derdakova; Núncio, Maria Sofia; Núncio, MS; Núncio; Carvalho, Isabel Lopes de; Carvalho, IL; Carvalho; Margos, Gabriele; Margos, G; Margos; Fingerle, Volker; Fingerle, V; Fingerle	Microorganisms
33819302	Probability of consolidation constrains novel serotype emergence in dengue fever virus.	Since their first sequencing 40 years ago, Dengue virus (DENV) genotypes have shown extreme coherence regarding the serotype class they encode. Considering that DENV is a ribonucleic acid (RNA) virus with a high mutation rate, this behavior is intriguing. Here, we explore the effect of various parameters on likelihood of new serotype emergence. In order to determine the time scales of such an event, we used a Timed Markov Transmission Model to explore the influences of sylvatic versus peri-urban transmission, viral mutation rate, and vertical transmission on the probabilities of novel serotype emergence. We found that around 1 000 years are required for a new serotype to emerge, consistent with phylogenetic analysis of extant dengue serotypes. Furthermore, we show that likelihood of establishing chains of mosquito-human-mosquito infection, known as consolidation, is the primary factor which constrains novel serotype emergence. Our work illustrates the restrictions on and provides a mechanistic explanation for the low probability of novel dengue virus serotype emergence and the low number of observed DENV serotypes.	2021	Sánchez-González, Gilberto; Sánchez-González, G; Sánchez-González; Belak, Zachery R; Belak, ZR; Belak; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Condé, Renaud; Condé, R; Condé	PLoS One
33854491	The CRISPR-Cas System Is Involved in OmpR Genetic Regulation for Outer Membrane Protein Synthesis in <i>Salmonella</i> Typhi.	The CRISPR-Cas cluster is found in many prokaryotic genomes including those of the Enterobacteriaceae family. <i>Salmonella enterica</i> serovar Typhi (<i>S</i>. Typhi) harbors a Type I-E CRISPR-Cas locus composed of <i>cas3</i>, <i>cse1</i>, <i>cse2</i>, <i>cas7</i>, <i>cas5</i>, <i>cas6e</i>, <i>cas1</i>, <i>cas2</i>, and a CRISPR1 array. In this work, it was determined that, in the absence of <i>cas5</i> or <i>cas2</i>, the amount of the OmpC porin decreased substantially, whereas in individual <i>cse2</i>, <i>cas6e</i>, <i>cas1</i>, or <i>cas3</i> null mutants, the OmpF porin was not observed in an electrophoretic profile of outer membrane proteins. Furthermore, the LysR-type transcriptional regulator LeuO was unable to positively regulate the expression of the quiescent OmpS2 porin, in individual <i>S</i>. Typhi <i>cse2</i>, <i>cas5</i>, <i>cas6e</i>, <i>cas1</i>, <i>cas2</i>, and <i>cas3</i> mutants. Remarkably, the expression of the master porin regulator OmpR was dependent on the Cse2, Cas5, Cas6e, Cas1, Cas2, and Cas3 proteins. Therefore, the data suggest that the CRISPR-Cas system acts hierarchically on OmpR to control the synthesis of outer membrane proteins in <i>S</i>. Typhi.	2021	Medina-Aparicio, Liliana; Medina-Aparicio, L; Medina-Aparicio; Rodriguez-Gutierrez, Sarahí; Rodriguez-Gutierrez, S; Rodriguez-Gutierrez; Rebollar-Flores, Javier E; Rebollar-Flores, JE; Rebollar-Flores; Martínez-Batallar, Ángel G; Martínez-Batallar, ÁG; Martínez-Batallar; Mendoza-Mejía, Blanca D; Mendoza-Mejía, BD; Mendoza-Mejía; Aguirre-Partida, Eira D; Aguirre-Partida, ED; Aguirre-Partida; Vázquez, Alejandra; Vázquez, A; Vázquez; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Calva, Edmundo; Calva, E; Calva; Hernández-Lucas, Ismael; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas	Front Microbiol
33815312	Diversity of <i>Weissella confusa</i> in <i>Pozol</i> and Its Carbohydrate Metabolism.	The genus <i>Weissella</i> is composed of a group of Gram-positive facultative anaerobe bacteria with fermentative metabolism. Strains of this genus have been isolated from various ecological niches, including a wide variety of fermented cereal foods. The present study aimed to determine the relative abundance and fermentation capabilities of <i>Weissella</i> species isolated from <i>pozol</i>, a traditional <i>maya</i> product made of lime-cooked (nixtamalized) fermented maize. We sequenced the V3-V4 regions of 16S rDNA; <i>Weissella</i> was detected early in the fermentation process and reached its highest relative abundance (3.89%) after 3 h of culture. In addition, we evaluated five <i>Weissella</i> strains previously isolated from <i>pozol</i> but reported as non-amylolytic, to define alternative carbon sources such as xylan, xylooligosaccharides, and sucrose. While no growth was observed on birch xylan, growth did occur on xylooligosaccharides and sucrose. Strains WcL17 and WCP-3A were selected for genomic sequencing, as the former shows efficient growth on xylooligosaccharides and the latter displays high glycosyltransferase (GTF) activity. Genomes of both strains were assembled and recorded, with a total of 2.3 Mb in 30 contigs for WcL17 and 2.2 Mb in 45 contigs for WCP-3a. Both strains were taxonomically assigned to <i>Weissella confusa</i> and genomic analyses were performed to evaluate the gene products encoding active carbohydrate enzymes (CAZy). Both strains have the gene content needed to metabolize sucrose, hemicellulose, cellulose, and starch residues, all available in <i>pozol</i>. Our results suggest that the range of secondary enzymatic activity in <i>Weissella confusa</i> strains confer them with wide capabilities to participate in fermentative processes of natural products with heterogeneous carbon sources.	2021	Hernández-Oaxaca, Diana; Hernández-Oaxaca, D; Hernández-Oaxaca; López-Sánchez, Rafael; López-Sánchez, R; López-Sánchez; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Wacher-Rodarte, Carmen; Wacher-Rodarte, C; Wacher-Rodarte; Segovia, Lorenzo; Segovia, L; Segovia; López Munguía, Agustín; López Munguía, A; López Munguía	Front Microbiol
33717711	Differential gene expression in a tripartite interaction: <i>Drosophila</i>, <i>Spiroplasma</i> and parasitic wasps.	Several facultative bacterial symbionts of insects protect their hosts against natural enemies. <i>Spiroplasma poulsonii</i> strain <i>s</i>Mel (hereafter <i>Spiroplasma</i>), a male-killing heritable symbiont of <i>Drosophila melanogaster</i>, confers protection against some species of parasitic wasps. Several lines of evidence suggest that <i>Spiroplasma</i>-encoded ribosome inactivating proteins (RIPs) are involved in the protection mechanism, but the potential contribution of the fly-encoded functions (e.g., immune response), has not been deeply explored.	2021	Higareda Alvear, Victor Manuel; Higareda Alvear, VM; Higareda Alvear; Mateos, Mariana; Mateos, M; Mateos; Cortez, Diego; Cortez, D; Cortez; Tamborindeguy, Cecilia; Tamborindeguy, C; Tamborindeguy; Martinez-Romero, Esperanza; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero	PeerJ
33800466	A Comparative Genomic Study of Attenuated and Virulent Strains of <i>Babesia bigemina</i>.	Cattle babesiosis is a socio-economically important tick-borne disease caused by Apicomplexa protozoa of the genus <i>Babesia</i> that are obligate intraerythrocytic parasites. The pathogenicity of <i>Babesia</i> parasites for cattle is determined by the interaction with the host immune system and the presence of the parasite's virulence genes. A <i>Babesia bigemina</i> strain that has been maintained under a microaerophilic stationary phase in in vitro culture conditions for several years in the laboratory lost virulence for the bovine host and the capacity for being transmitted by the tick vector. In this study, we compared the virulome of the in vitro culture attenuated <i>Babesia bigemina</i> strain (S) and the virulent tick transmitted parental Mexican <i>B. bigemina</i> strain (M). Preliminary results obtained by using the Basic Local Alignment Search Tool (BLAST) showed that out of 27 virulence genes described and analyzed in the <i>B. bigemina</i> virulent tick transmitted strain, only five were fully identified in the attenuated laboratory strain. In all cases, the identity and coverture of the identified genes of the wildtype strain were higher than those of the laboratory strain. This finding is putatively associated with the continuous partial loss of virulence genes in the laboratory strain after several passages of the parasite population under optimal in vitro growth conditions. The loss of virulence factors might be reflected in the absence of symptoms of the disease in cattle inoculated with the attenuated strain despite the presence of infection in the bovine host cells.	2021 Mar	Sachman-Ruiz, Bernardo; Sachman-Ruiz, B; Sachman-Ruiz; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Lira, José J; Lira, JJ; Lira; Martínez, Grecia; Martínez, G; Martínez; Rojas, Carmen; Rojas, C; Rojas; Álvarez, J Antonio; Álvarez, JA; Álvarez; Figueroa, Julio V; Figueroa, JV; Figueroa	Pathogens
33730068	High-throughput transcriptome sequencing and comparative analysis of Escherichia coli and Schizosaccharomyces pombe in respiratory and fermentative growth.	In spite of increased complexity in eukaryotes compared to prokaryotes, several basic metabolic and regulatory processes are conserved. Here we explored analogies in the eubacteria Escherichia coli and the unicellular fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe transcriptomes under two carbon sources: 2% glucose; or a mix of 2% glycerol and 0.2% sodium acetate using the same growth media and growth phase. Overall, twelve RNA-seq libraries were constructed. A total of 593 and 860 genes were detected as differentially expressed for E. coli and S. pombe, respectively, with a log2 of the Fold Change ≥ 1 and False Discovery Rate ≤ 0.05. In aerobic glycolysis, most of the expressed genes were associated with cell proliferation in both organisms, including amino acid metabolism and glycolysis. In contrast in glycerol/acetate condition, genes related to flagellar assembly and membrane proteins were differentially expressed such as the general transcription factors fliA, flhD, flhC, and flagellum assembly genes were detected in E. coli, whereas in S. pombe genes for hexose transporters, integral membrane proteins, galactose metabolism, and ncRNAs related to cellular stress were overexpressed. In general, our study shows that a conserved "foraging behavior" response is observed in these eukaryotic and eubacterial organisms in gluconeogenic carbon sources.	2021	Vichi, Joivier; Vichi, J; Vichi; Salazar, Emmanuel; Salazar, E; Salazar; Jacinto, Verónica Jiménez; Jacinto, VJ; Jacinto; Rodriguez, Leticia Olvera; Rodriguez, LO; Rodriguez; Grande, Ricardo; Grande, R; Grande; Dantán-González, Edgar; Dantán-González, E; Dantán-González; Morett, Enrique; Morett, E; Morett; Hernández-Mendoza, Armando; Hernández-Mendoza, A; Hernández-Mendoza	PLoS One
33300202	Phaseolus vulgaris MIR1511 genotypic variations differentially regulate plant tolerance to aluminum toxicity.	The common-bean (Phaseolus vulgaris), a widely consumed legume, originated in Mesoamerica and expanded to South America, resulting in the development of two geographically distinct gene pools. Poor soil condition, including metal toxicity, are often constraints to common-bean crop production. Several P. vulgaris miRNAs, including miR1511, respond to metal toxicity. The MIR1511 gene sequence from the two P. vulgaris model sequenced genotypes revealed that, as opposed to BAT93 (Mesoamerican), the G19833 (Andean) accession displays a 58-bp deletion, comprising the mature and star miR1511 sequences. Genotyping-By-Sequencing data analysis from 87 non-admixed Phaseolus genotypes, comprising different Phaseolus species and P. vulgaris populations, revealed that all the P. vulgaris Andean genotypes and part of the Mesoamerican (MW1) genotypes analyzed displayed a truncated MIR1511 gene. The geographic origin of genotypes with a complete versus truncated MIR1511 showed a distinct distribution. The P. vulgaris ALS3 (Aluminum Sensitive Protein 3) gene, known to be important for aluminum detoxification in several plants, was experimentally validated as the miR1511 target. Roots from BAT93 plants showed decreased miR1511 and increased ALS3 transcript levels at early stages under aluminum toxicity (AlT), while G19833 plants, lacking mature miR1511, showed higher and earlier ALS3 response. Root architecture analyses evidenced higher tolerance of G19833 plants to AlT. However, G19833 plants engineered for miR1511 overexpression showed lower ALS3 transcript level and increased sensitivity to AlT. Absence of miR1511 in Andean genotypes, resulting in a diminished ALS3 transcript degradation, appears to be an evolutionary advantage to high Al levels in soils with increased drought conditions.	2021 03	Ángel Martín-Rodríguez, Jose; Ángel Martín-Rodríguez, J; Ángel Martín-Rodríguez; Ariani, Andrea; Ariani, A; Ariani; Leija, Alfonso; Leija, A; Leija; Elizondo, Armando; Elizondo, A; Elizondo; Fuentes, Sara I; Fuentes, SI; Fuentes; Ramirez, Mario; Ramirez, M; Ramirez; Gepts, Paul; Gepts, P; Gepts; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Formey, Damien; Formey, D; Formey	Plant J
33412274	Proteomic comparison of biofilm vs. planktonic Staphylococcus epidermidis cells suggests key metabolic differences between these conditions.	Previous studies have shown that biofilm-forming bacteria are deficient in tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle metabolites, suggesting a relationship between these cellular processes. In this work, we compared the proteomes of planktonic vs biofilm cells from a clinical strain of Staphylococcus epidermidis using LC-MS/MS. A total of 168 proteins were identified from both growth conditions. The biofilm cells showed enrichment of proteins participating in glycolysis for the formation of pyruvate; however, the absence of TCA cycle proteins and the presence of lactate dehydrogenase, formate acetyltransferase, and acetoin reductase suggested that pyruvate was catabolized to their respective products: lactate, formate and acetoin. On the other hand, planktonic cells showed proteins participating in glycolysis and the TCA cycle, the pentose phosphate pathway, gluconeogenesis, ATP generation and the oxidative stress response. Functional networks with higher interconnection were predicted for planktonic proteins. We propose that in S. epidermidis, the relative absence of TCA cycle proteins is associated with the formation of biofilms and that lactate, formate and acetoin are the end products of partial glucose metabolism.	2021 Mar	Martínez-García, Sergio; Martínez-García, S; Martínez-García; Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta; Betanzos-Cabrera, Gabriel; Betanzos-Cabrera, G; Betanzos-Cabrera; Chavez-Galan, Leslie; Chavez-Galan, L; Chavez-Galan; Rodríguez-Martínez, Sandra; Rodríguez-Martínez, S; Rodríguez-Martínez; Cancino-Diaz, Mario E; Cancino-Diaz, ME; Cancino-Diaz; Cancino-Diaz, Juan C; Cancino-Diaz, JC; Cancino-Diaz	Res Microbiol
33643369	Exopolysaccharide Characterization of <i>Rhizobium favelukesii</i> LPU83 and Its Role in the Symbiosis With Alfalfa.	One of the greatest inputs of available nitrogen into the biosphere occurs through the biological N<sub>2</sub>-fixation to ammonium as result of the symbiosis between rhizobia and leguminous plants. These interactions allow increased crop yields on nitrogen-poor soils. Exopolysaccharides (EPS) are key components for the establishment of an effective symbiosis between alfalfa and <i>Ensifer meliloti</i>, as bacteria that lack EPS are unable to infect the host plants. <i>Rhizobium favelukesii</i> LPU83 is an acid-tolerant rhizobia strain capable of nodulating alfalfa but inefficient to fix nitrogen. Aiming to identify the molecular determinants that allow <i>R. favelukesii</i> to infect plants, we studied its EPS biosynthesis. LPU83 produces an EPS I identical to the one present in <i>E. meliloti</i>, but the organization of the genes involved in its synthesis is different. The main gene cluster needed for the synthesis of EPS I in <i>E. meliloti</i>, is split into three different sections in <i>R. favelukesii</i>, which probably arose by a recent event of horizontal gene transfer. A <i>R. favelukesii</i> strain devoided of all the genes needed for the synthesis of EPS I is still able to infect and nodulate alfalfa, suggesting that attention should be directed to other molecules involved in the development of the symbiosis.	2021	Castellani, Lucas G; Castellani, LG; Castellani; Luchetti, Abril; Luchetti, A; Luchetti; Nilsson, Juliet F; Nilsson, JF; Nilsson; Pérez-Giménez, Julieta; Pérez-Giménez, J; Pérez-Giménez; Wegener, Caren; Wegener, C; Wegener; Schlüter, Andreas; Schlüter, A; Schlüter; Pühler, Alfred; Pühler, A; Pühler; Lagares, Antonio; Lagares, A; Lagares; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; Pistorio, Mariano; Pistorio, M; Pistorio; Niehaus, Karsten; Niehaus, K; Niehaus; Torres Tejerizo, Gonzalo A; Torres Tejerizo, GA; Torres Tejerizo	Front Plant Sci
33531404	A Novel Group of Promiscuous Podophages Infecting Diverse Gammaproteobacteria from River Communities Exhibits Dynamic Intergenus Host Adaptation.	Phages are generally described as species specific or even strain specific, implying an inherent limitation for some to be maintained and spread in diverse bacterial communities. Moreover, phage isolation and host range determination rarely consider the phage ecological context, likely biasing our notion on phage specificity. Here we isolated and characterized a novel group of six promiscuous phages, named Atoyac, existing in rivers and sewage by using a diverse collection of over 600 bacteria retrieved from the same environments as potential hosts. These podophages isolated from different regions in Mexico display a remarkably broad host range, infecting bacteria from six genera: <i>Aeromonas</i>, <i>Pseudomonas</i>, <i>Yersinia</i>, <i>Hafnia</i>, <i>Escherichia</i>, and <i>Serratia</i> Atoyac phage genomes are ∼42 kb long and highly similar to each other, but not to those currently available in genome and metagenome public databases. Detailed comparison of the phages' efficiency of plating (EOP) revealed variation among bacterial genera, implying a cost associated with infection of distant hosts, and between phages, despite their sequence similarity. We show, through experimental evolution in single or alternate hosts of different genera, that efficiency of plaque production is highly dynamic and tends toward optimization in hosts rendering low plaque formation. However, adaptation to distinct hosts differed between similar phages; whereas one phage optimized its EOP in all tested hosts, the other reduced plaque production in one host, suggesting that propagation in multiple bacteria may be key to maintain promiscuity in some viruses. Our study expands our knowledge of the virosphere and uncovers bacterium-phage interactions overlooked in natural systems.<b>IMPORTANCE</b> In natural environments, phages coexist and interact with a broad variety of bacteria, posing a conundrum for narrow-host-range phage maintenance in diverse communities. This context is rarely considered in the study of host-phage interactions, typically focused on narrow-host-range viruses and their infectivity in target bacteria isolated from sources distinct to where the phages were retrieved from. By studying phage-host interactions in bacteria and viruses isolated from river microbial communities, we show that novel phages with promiscuous host range encompassing multiple bacterial genera can be found in the environment. Assessment of hundreds of interactions in diverse hosts revealed that similar phages exhibit different infection efficiency and adaptation patterns. Understanding host range is fundamental in our knowledge of bacterium-phage interactions and their impact on microbial communities. The dynamic nature of phage promiscuity revealed in our study has implications in different aspects of phage research such as horizontal gene transfer or phage therapy.	2021 Feb	Cazares, Daniel; Cazares, D; Cazares; Cazares, Adrian; Cazares, A; Cazares; Figueroa, Wendy; Figueroa, W; Figueroa; Guarneros, Gabriel; Guarneros, G; Guarneros; Edwards, Robert A; Edwards, RA; Edwards; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa	mSystems
33469548	Ornithine Lipids in <i>Burkholderia</i> spp. Pathogenicity.	The genus <i>Burkholderia</i> sensu lato is composed of a diverse and metabolically versatile group of bacterial species. One characteristic thought to be unique for the genus <i>Burkholderia</i> is the presence of two forms each (with and without 2-hydroxylation) of the membrane lipids phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) and ornithine lipids (OLs). Here, we show that only <i>Burkholderia</i> sensu stricto strains constitutively form OLs, whereas all other analyzed strains belonging to the <i>Burkholderia</i> sensu lato group constitutively form the two forms of PE, but no OLs. We selected two model bacteria to study the function of OL in <i>Burkholderia</i> sensu lato: (1) <i>Burkholderia cenocepacia</i> wild-type which constitutively forms OLs and its mutant deficient in the formation of OLs and (2) <i>Robbsia andropogonis</i> (formerly <i>Burkholderia andropogonis</i>) which does not form OL constitutively, and a derived strain constitutively forming OLs. Both were characterized under free-living conditions and during pathogenic interactions with their respective hosts. The absence of OLs in <i>B. cenocepacia</i> slightly affected bacterial growth under specific abiotic stress conditions such as high temperature and low pH. <i>B. cenocepacia</i> lacking OLs caused lower mortality in <i>Galleria mellonella</i> larvae while <i>R. andropogonis</i> constitutively forming OLs triggers an increased formation of reactive oxygen species immediately after infection of maize leaves, suggesting that OLs can have an important role during the activation of the innate immune response of eukaryotes.	2020	Córdoba-Castro, Luz América; Córdoba-Castro, LA; Córdoba-Castro; Salgado-Morales, Rosalba; Salgado-Morales, R; Salgado-Morales; Torres, Martha; Torres, M; Torres; Martínez-Aguilar, Lourdes; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Vences-Guzmán, Miguel Ángel; Vences-Guzmán, MÁ; Vences-Guzmán; Guan, Ziqiang; Guan, Z; Guan; Dantán-González, Edgar; Dantán-González, E; Dantán-González; Serrano, Mario; Serrano, M; Serrano; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	Front Mol Biosci
33232849	Diverse Rhizobium strains isolated from root nodules of Trifolium alexandrinum in Egypt and symbiovars.	Berseem clover (T. alexandrinum) is the main forage legume crop used as animal feed in Egypt. Here, eighty rhizobial isolates were isolated from root nodules of berseem clover grown in different regions in Egypt and were grouped by RFLP-16S rRNA ribotyping. Representative isolates were characterized using phylogenetic analyses of the 16S rRNA, rpoB, glnA, pgi, and nodC genes. We also investigated the performance of these isolates using phenotypic tests and nitrogen fixation efficiency assays. The majority of strains (<90%) were closely related to Rhizobium aegyptiacum and Rhizobium aethiopicum and of the remaining strains, six belonged to the Rhizobium leguminosarum genospecies complex and only one strain was assigned to Agrobacterium fabacearum. Despite their heterogeneous chromosomal background, most of the strains shared nodC gene alleles corresponding to symbiovar trifolii. Some of the strains closely affiliated to R. aegyptiacum and R. aethiopicum had superior nodulation and nitrogen fixation capabilities in berseem clover, compared to the commercial inoculant (Okadein®) and N-added treatments. R. leguminosarum strain NGB-CR 17 that harbored a nodC allele typical of symbiovar viciae, was also able to form an effective symbiosis with clover. Two strains with nodC alleles of symbiovar trifolii, R. aegyptiacum strains NGB-CR 129 and 136, were capable of forming effective nodules in Phaseolus vulgaris in axenic greenhouse conditions. This adds the symbiovar trifolii which is well-established in the Egyptian soils to the list of symbiovars that form nodules in P. vulgaris.	2021 Jan	Youseif, Sameh H; Youseif, SH; Youseif; Abd El-Megeed, Fayrouz H; Abd El-Megeed, FH; Abd El-Megeed; Mohamed, Akram H; Mohamed, AH; Mohamed; Ageez, Amr; Ageez, A; Ageez; Veliz, Esteban; Veliz, E; Veliz; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
32535165	Quantifying plasmid dynamics using single-cell microfluidics and image bioinformatics.	Multicopy plasmids play an important role in bacterial ecology and evolution by accelerating the rate of adaptation and providing a platform for rapid gene amplification and evolutionary rescue. Despite the relevance of plasmids in bacterial evolutionary dynamics, evaluating the population-level consequences of randomly segregating and replicating plasmids in individual cells remains a challenging problem, both in theory and experimentally. In recent years, technological advances in fluorescence microscopy and microfluidics have allowed studying temporal changes in gene expression by quantifying the fluorescent intensity of individual cells under controlled environmental conditions. In this paper, we will describe the manufacture, experimental setup, and data analysis pipeline of different microfluidic systems that can be used to study plasmid dynamics, both in single-cells and in populations. To illustrate the benefits and limitations of microfluidics to study multicopy plasmid dynamics, we will use an experimental model system consisting on Escherichia coli K12 carrying non-conjugative, multicopy plasmids (19 copies per cell, in average) encoding different fluorescent markers and β-lactam resistance genes. First, we will use an image-based flow cytometer to estimate changes in the allele distribution of a heterogeneous population under different selection regimes. Then we will use a mothermachine microfluidic device to obtain time-series of fluorescent intensity of individual cells to argue that plasmid segregation and replication dynamics are inherently stochastic processes. Finally, using a microchemostat, we track thousands of cells in time to reconstruct bacterial lineages and evaluate the allele frequency distributions that emerge in response to a range of selective pressures.	2021 01	Hernandez-Beltran, J C R; Hernandez-Beltran, JCR; Hernandez-Beltran; Rodríguez-Beltrán, J; Rodríguez-Beltrán, J; Rodríguez-Beltrán; Millán, A San; Millán, AS; Millán; Peña-Miller, R; Peña-Miller, R; Peña-Miller; Fuentes-Hernández, A; Fuentes-Hernández, A; Fuentes-Hernández	Plasmid
33384681	A Novel OmpR-Type Response Regulator Controls Multiple Stages of the <i>Rhizobium etli - Phaseolus vulgaris</i> N<sub>2</sub>-Fixing Symbiosis.	OmpR, is one of the best characterized response regulators families, which includes transcriptional regulators with a variety of physiological roles including the control of symbiotic nitrogen fixation (SNF). The <i>Rhizobium etli</i> CE3 genome encodes 18 OmpR-type regulators; the function of the majority of these regulators during the SNF in common bean, remains elusive. In this work, we demonstrated that a <i>R. etli</i> mutant strain lacking the OmpR-type regulator RetPC57 (ΔRetPC57), formed less nodules when used as inoculum for common bean. Furthermore, we observed reduced expression level of bacterial genes involved in Nod Factors production (<i>nodA</i> and <i>nodB</i>) and of plant early-nodulation genes (<i>NSP2</i>, <i>NIN</i>, <i>NF-YA</i> and <i>ENOD40</i>), in plants inoculated with ΔRetPC57. RetPC57 also contributes to the appropriate expression of genes which products are part of the multidrug efflux pumps family (MDR). Interestingly, nodules elicited by ΔRetPC57 showed increased expression of genes relevant for Carbon/Nitrogen nodule metabolism (<i>PEPC</i> and <i>GOGAT</i>) and ΔRetPC57 bacteroids showed higher nitrogen fixation activity as well as increased expression of key genes directly involved in SNF (<i>hfixL, fixKf, fnrN, fixN, nifA</i> and <i>nifH</i>). Taken together, our data show that the previously uncharacterized regulator RetPC57 is a key player in the development of the <i>R. etli</i> - <i>P. vulgaris</i> symbiosis.	2020	Rodríguez, Susana; Rodríguez, S; Rodríguez; Correa-Galeote, David; Correa-Galeote, D; Correa-Galeote; Sánchez-Pérez, Mishael; Sánchez-Pérez, M; Sánchez-Pérez; Ramírez, Mario; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Isidra-Arellano, Mariel C; Isidra-Arellano, MC; Isidra-Arellano; Reyero-Saavedra, María Del Rocío; Reyero-Saavedra, MDR; Reyero-Saavedra; Zamorano-Sánchez, David; Zamorano-Sánchez, D; Zamorano-Sánchez; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Valdés-López, Oswaldo; Valdés-López, O; Valdés-López; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard	Front Microbiol
33045056	Origin and Evolutionary Dynamics of the miR2119 and ADH1 Regulatory Module in Legumes.	MicroRNAs are important regulators of gene expression in eukaryotes. Previously, we reported that in Phaseolus vulgaris, the precursor for miR2119 is located in the same gene as miR398a, conceiving a dicistronic MIR gene. Both miRNA precursors are transcribed and processed from a single transcript resulting in two mature microRNAs that regulate the mRNAs encoding ALCOHOL DEHYDROGENASE 1 (ADH1) and COPPER-ZINC SUPEROXIDE DISMUTASE 1 (CSD1). Genes for miR398 are distributed throughout the spermatophytes; however, miR2119 is only found in Leguminosae species, indicating its recent emergence. Here, we used public databases to explore the presence of the miR2119 sequence in several plant species. We found that miR2119 is present only in specific clades within the Papilionoideae subfamily, including important crops used for human consumption and forage. Within this subfamily, MIR2119 and MIR398a are found together as a single gene in the genomes of the Millettioids and Hologalegina. In contrast, in the Dalbergioids MIR2119 is located in a different locus from MIR398a, suggesting this as the ancestral genomic organization. To our knowledge, this is a unique example where two separate MIRNA genes have merged to generate a single polycistronic gene. Phylogenetic analysis of ADH1 gene sequences in the Papilionoideae subfamily revealed duplication events resulting in up to four ADH1 genes in certain species. Notably, the presence of MIR2119 correlates with the conservation of target sites in particular ADH1 genes in each clade. Our results suggest that post-transcriptional regulation of ADH1 genes by miR2119 has contributed to shaping the expansion and divergence of this gene family in the Papilionoideae. Future experimental work on ADH1 regulation by miR2119 in more legume species will help to further understand the evolutionary history of the ADH1 gene family and the relevance of miRNA regulation in this process.	2020 12	De la Rosa, Carlos; De la Rosa, C; De la Rosa; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Covarrubias, Alejandra A; Covarrubias, AA; Covarrubias; Reyes, José L; Reyes, JL; Reyes	Genome Biol Evol
32916332	Antibiotic resistance mechanisms in Acinetobacter spp. strains isolated from patients in a paediatric hospital in Mexico.	The aim of this study was to identify Acinetobacter spp. strains from paediatric patients, to determine their genetic relationship, to detect antibiotic resistance genes and to evaluate the role of efflux pumps in antibiotic resistance.	2020 12	Bello-López, Elena; Bello-López, E; Bello-López; Rocha-Gracia, Rosa Del Carmen; Rocha-Gracia, RDC; Rocha-Gracia; Castro-Jaimes, Semiramis; Castro-Jaimes, S; Castro-Jaimes; Cevallos, Miguel Ángel; Cevallos, MÁ; Cevallos; Vargas-Cruz, Michelle; Vargas-Cruz, M; Vargas-Cruz; Verdugo-Yocupicio, Ricardo; Verdugo-Yocupicio, R; Verdugo-Yocupicio; Sáenz, Yolanda; Sáenz, Y; Sáenz; Torres, Carmen; Torres, C; Torres; Gutiérrez-Cázarez, Zita; Gutiérrez-Cázarez, Z; Gutiérrez-Cázarez; Arenas-Hernández, Margarita María de la Paz; Arenas-Hernández, MMP; Arenas-Hernández; Lozano-Zarain, Patricia; Lozano-Zarain, P; Lozano-Zarain	J Glob Antimicrob Resist
32894363	Bacillus velezensis 83 a bacterial strain from mango phyllosphere, useful for biological control and plant growth promotion.	Bacillus velezensis 83 was isolated from mango tree phyllosphere of orchards located in El Rosario, Sinaloa, México. The assessment of this strain as BCA (biological control agent), as well as PGPB (plant growth-promoting bacteria), were demonstrated through in vivo and in vitro assays. In vivo assays showed that B. velezensis 83 was able to control anthracnose (Kent mangoes) as efficiently as chemical treatment with Captan 50 PH™ or Cupravit hidro™. The inoculation of B. velezensis 83 to the roots of maize seedlings yielded an increase of 12% in height and 45% of root biomass, as compared with uninoculated seedlings. In vitro co-culture assays showed that B. velezensis 83 promoted Arabidopsis thaliana growth (root and shoot biomass) while, under the same experimental conditions, B. velezensis FZB42 (reference strain) had a suppressive effect on plant growth. In order to characterize the isolated strain, the complete genome sequence of B. velezensis 83 is reported. Its circular genome consists of 3,997,902 bp coding to 3949 predicted genes. The assembly and annotation of this genome revealed gene clusters related with plant-bacteria interaction and sporulation, as well as ten secondary metabolites biosynthetic gene clusters implicated in the biological control of phytopathogens. Despite the high genomic identity (> 98%) between B. velezensis 83 and B. velezensis FZB42, they are phenotypically different. Indeed, in vitro production of compounds such as surfactin and bacillomycin D (biocontrol activity) and γ-PGA (biofilm component) is significantly different between both strains.	2020 Sep	Balderas-Ruíz, Karina A; Balderas-Ruíz, KA; Balderas-Ruíz; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Santamaria, Rosa I; Santamaria, RI; Santamaria; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Cristiano-Fajardo, Sergio Andrés; Cristiano-Fajardo, SA; Cristiano-Fajardo; Barrera-Ortíz, Salvador; Barrera-Ortíz, S; Barrera-Ortíz; Mezo-Villalobos, Miriam; Mezo-Villalobos, M; Mezo-Villalobos; Aranda-Ocampo, Sergio; Aranda-Ocampo, S; Aranda-Ocampo; Guevara-García, Ángel Arturo; Guevara-García, ÁA; Guevara-García; Galindo, Enrique; Galindo, E; Galindo; Serrano-Carreón, Leobardo; Serrano-Carreón, L; Serrano-Carreón	AMB Express
32989089	Cyclic di-GMP-Mediated Regulation of Extracellular Mannuronan C-5 Epimerases Is Essential for Cyst Formation in Azotobacter vinelandii.	The genus <i>Azotobacter,</i> belonging to the <i>Pseudomonadaceae</i> family, is characterized by the formation of cysts, which are metabolically dormant cells produced under adverse conditions and able to resist desiccation. Although this developmental process has served as a model for the study of cell differentiation in Gram-negative bacteria, the molecular basis of its regulation is still poorly understood. Here, we report that the ubiquitous second messenger cyclic dimeric GMP (c-di-GMP) is critical for the formation of cysts in <i>Azotobacter vinelandii</i> Upon encystment induction, the levels of c-di-GMP increased, reaching a peak within the first 6 h. In the absence of the diguanylate cyclase MucR, however, the levels of this second messenger remained low throughout the developmental process. <i>A. vinelandii</i> cysts are surrounded by two alginate layers with variable proportions of guluronic residues, which are introduced into the final alginate chain by extracellular mannuronic C-5 epimerases of the AlgE1 to AlgE7 family. Unlike in <i>Pseudomonas aeruginosa</i>, MucR was not required for alginate polymerization in <i>A. vinelandii</i> Conversely, MucR was necessary for the expression of extracellular alginate C-5 epimerases; therefore, the MucR-deficient strain produced cyst-like structures devoid of the alginate capsule and unable to resist desiccation. Expression of <i>mucR</i> was partially dependent on the response regulator AlgR, which binds to two sites in the <i>mucR</i> promoter, enhancing <i>mucR</i> transcription. Together, these results indicate that the developmental process of <i>A. vinelandii</i> is controlled through a signaling module that involves activation by the response regulator AlgR and c-di-GMP accumulation that depends on MucR.<b>IMPORTANCE</b> <i>A. vinelandii</i> has served as an experimental model for the study of the differentiation processes to form metabolically dormant cells in Gram-negative bacteria. This work identifies c-di-GMP as a critical regulator for the production of alginates with specific contents of guluronic residues that are able to structure the rigid laminated layers of the cyst envelope. Although allosteric activation of the alginate polymerase complex Alg8-Alg44 by c-di-GMP has long been recognized, our results show a previously unidentified role during the polymer modification step, controlling the expression of extracellular alginate epimerases. Our results also highlight the importance of c-di-GMP in the control of the physical properties of alginate, which ultimately determine the desiccation resistance of the differentiated cell.	2020 11	Martínez-Ortiz, Iliana C; Martínez-Ortiz, IC; Martínez-Ortiz; Ahumada-Manuel, Carlos L; Ahumada-Manuel, CL; Ahumada-Manuel; Hsueh, Brian Y; Hsueh, BY; Hsueh; Guzmán, Josefina; Guzmán, J; Guzmán; Moreno, Soledad; Moreno, S; Moreno; Cocotl-Yañez, Miguel; Cocotl-Yañez, M; Cocotl-Yañez; Waters, Christopher M; Waters, CM; Waters; Zamorano-Sánchez, David; Zamorano-Sánchez, D; Zamorano-Sánchez; Espín, Guadalupe; Espín, G; Espín; Núñez, Cinthia; Núñez, C; Núñez	J Bacteriol
32385221	Identification of miRNAs linked to peanut nodule functional processes.	microRNAs (miRNAs) are non-coding small RNAs that regulate gene expression at post-transcriptional level. Thousands of miRNAs have been identified in legumes, but studies about miRNAs linked to peanut nodule functionality are scarce. In this work we analyzed transcriptional changes in peanut nodules to identify miRNAs involved in functional processes of these organs. We found 32 miRNAs precursors differentially expressed in nodules compared with roots, and predicted the potential targets of their corresponding mature miRNAs. Among them, 20 belong to 14 conserved miRNAs families and 12 are <i>Arachis hypogaea</i>-specific miRNAs. Expression levels of 3 miRNAs (ahy-miR399, ahy-miR159 and ahy-miR3508) were confirmed experimentally by qPCR. We also demonstrated that the expression of these miRNAs was not affected by inoculation of a biocontrol bacterium or a fungal pathogen. The catalogue of differentially expressed miRNA precursors and the expression of the corresponding mature miRNA potential targets in the nodules of <i>A. hypogaea</i> obtained in this work is a database of strong candidates, including <i>A. hypogaea</i>-specific miRNAs, for the regulation of the nodule functionality. The analysis of their role in this process will certainly lead to the characterization of essential regulators in these particular aeschynomenoid nodules.	2020	Figueredo, Maria Soledad; Figueredo, MS; Figueredo; Formey, Damien; Formey, D; Formey; Rodriguez, Johan; Rodriguez, J; Rodriguez; Ibanez, Fernando; Ibanez, F; Ibanez; Hernandez, Georgina; Hernandez, G; Hernandez; Fabra, Adriana; Fabra, A; Fabra	J Biosci
32890468	On the evolution of cytochrome oxidases consuming oxygen.	This review examines the current state of the art on the evolution of the families of Heme Copper Oxygen reductases (HCO) that oxidize cytochrome c and reduce oxygen to water, chiefly cytochrome oxidase, COX. COX is present in many bacterial and most eukaryotic lineages, but its origin has remained elusive. After examining previous proposals for COX evolution, the review summarizes recent insights suggesting that COX enzymes might have evolved in soil dwelling, probably iron-oxidizing bacteria which lived on emerged land over two billion years ago. These bacteria were the likely ancestors of extant acidophilic iron-oxidizers such as Acidithiobacillus spp., which belong to basal lineages of the phylum Proteobacteria. Proteobacteria may thus be considered the originators of COX, which was then laterally transferred to other prokaryotes. The taxonomy of bacteria is presented in relation to the current distribution of COX and C family oxidases, from which COX may have evolved.	2020 12	Esposti, Mauro Degli; Esposti, MD; Esposti	Biochim Biophys Acta Bioenerg
32956635	Protein expression profile of Taenia crassiceps cysticerci related to Th1- and Th2-type responses in the mouse cysticercosis model.	The intraperitoneal cysticercosis model with the Taenia crassiceps ORF strain in female BALB/cAnN mice has been widely used to study the immune response in cysticercosis. During early infection (2 weeks), the host develops a non-permissive Th1 response, whereas during late infection (8 weeks), molecules from the cysticerci induce a Th2 response that is permissive to parasite growth. The modulation of the Th2 response is induced by molecules excreted/secreted by the larval stage of the parasite. However, there is limited information regarding the response of cysticerci to the mouse immunological environment during infection. The proteomic profiles in T. crassiceps ORF cysticerci when faced with the mouse Th1 and Th2 responses were analyzed through two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2DE), and the differential expression of proteins was evaluated. Thirteen proteins, whose differential expression varied between 70% and 100%, were selected randomly. Protein identification by MALDI-TOF MS and BLAST showed that the proteins were related to folding, signaling, enzymatic activities, cell-movement regulation, cell-cell interactions, motility, carbohydrate metabolism, detoxification, and redox regulation processes. Notably, some of the proteins can act as antigenic-protective molecules and elicit a weak Th1 response; however, most are involved in the avoidance of the immune system, which leads to a Th2 response, or apoptosis. The findings indicate the process by which T. crassiceps cysticerci responds based on the host environment and provides novel insights into the mechanism by which this facilitates its establishment and persistence in the mouse. Furthermore, these proteins could be used as targets for drug and vaccine development.	2020 Dec	Díaz-Zaragoza, Mariana; Díaz-Zaragoza, M; Díaz-Zaragoza; Jiménez, LucíaLucía; Jiménez, L; Jiménez; Hernández, Magdalena; Hernández, M; Hernández; Hernández-Ávila, Ricardo; Hernández-Ávila, R; Hernández-Ávila; Navarro, Luz; Navarro, L; Navarro; Ochoa-Sánchez, Alicia; Ochoa-Sánchez, A; Ochoa-Sánchez; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Ostoa-Saloma, Pedro; Ostoa-Saloma, P; Ostoa-Saloma; Landa, Abraham; Landa, A; Landa	Acta Trop
33051478	Spirochetes isolated from arthropods constitute a novel genus Entomospira genus novum within the order Spirochaetales.	Spirochetal bacteria were successfully isolated from mosquitoes (Culex pipiens, Aedes cinereus) in the Czech Republic between 1999 and 2002. Preliminary 16S rRNA phylogenetic sequence analysis showed that these strains differed significantly from other spirochetal genera within the family Spirochaetaceae and suggested a novel bacterial genus in this family. To obtain more comprehensive genomic information of these isolates, we used Illumina MiSeq and Oxford Nanopore technologies to sequence four genomes of these spirochetes (BR151, BR149, BR193, BR208). The overall size of the genomes varied between 1.68 and 1.78 Mb; the GC content ranged from 38.5 to 45.8%. Draft genomes were compared to 36 publicly available genomes encompassing eight genera from the class Spirochaetes. A phylogeny generated from orthologous genes across all taxa and the percentage of conserved proteins (POCP) confirmed the genus status of these novel spirochetes. The genus Entomospira gen. nov. is proposed with BR151 selected as type species of the genus. For this isolate and the closest related isolate, BR149, we propose the species name Entomospira culicis sp. nov. The two other isolates BR208 and BR193 are named Entomospira nematocera sp. nov. (BR208) and Entomospira entomophilus sp. nov. (BR193). Finally, we discuss their interesting phylogenetic positioning.	2020 10	Graña-Miraglia, Lucía; Graña-Miraglia, L; Graña-Miraglia; Sikutova, Silvie; Sikutova, S; Sikutova; Vancová, Marie; Vancová, M; Vancová; Bílý, Tomáš; Bílý, T; Bílý; Fingerle, Volker; Fingerle, V; Fingerle; Sing, Andreas; Sing, A; Sing; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Margos, Gabriele; Margos, G; Margos; Rudolf, Ivo; Rudolf, I; Rudolf	Sci Rep
32651884	Structure and diversity of native bacterial communities in soils contaminated with polychlorinated biphenyls.	Persistent organic pollutants (POPs) such as polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are a group of high-risk synthetic substances for human and environmental health. Currently, the study of sites contaminated by the spillage of equipment PCBs containing have been considered targeted areas for the study of bacterial communities with potential for PCBs degradation. There in isolation of bacterial strains is vital for use in biodegradable processes, such as bacterial bioaugmentation, which accelerates the development of phenomena such as natural attenuation of contaminated sites. The objective of this study was to assess biodiversity of bacteria contained in anthropogenic contaminated soils (H<sub>S</sub> and H<sub>P</sub>) with PCBs compared to a control sample without contaminant and the modified forest (F) and agricultural (A) soil in the laboratory with 100 mg L<sup>-1</sup> PCB. For the analysis of 16S rRNA genes amplified from DNA extracted from the soils evaluated, the latest generation of Illumina Miseq and Sanger sequencing for the cultivable strains were detected. The bacteria identified as the most abundant bacterial phyla for H<sub>S</sub> and H<sub>P</sub> soil was Proteobacteria (56.7%) and Firmicutes (22.9%), which decreased in F and A soils. The most abundant bacterial genera were Burkholderia, Bacillus, Acinetobacter, Comamonas and Cupriavidus. Several species identified in this study, such as Bacillus cereus, Burkholderia cepacia, Comamonas testosteroni and Acinetobacter pittii have been reported as PCBs degraders. Finally, by means of a principal component analysis (PCA), a correlation between the physical and chemical characteristics of the soils in relation to the relative abundances of the bacteria identified was obtained. The C/N ratio was directly related to the control soil (without contaminant), while SOM maintained a relationship with F and A soils and the bacterial abundances were directly related to Hs and Hp soils due to the presence of aroclor 1260. Bacteria with the ability to tolerate high concentrations of this pollutant are considered for future use in biostimulation and bioaugmentation processes in contaminated soils.	2020 Jul	Zenteno-Rojas, Adalberto; Zenteno-Rojas, A; Zenteno-Rojas; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Castañeda-Valbuena, Daniel; Castañeda-Valbuena, D; Castañeda-Valbuena; Rincón-Molina, Clara Ivette; Rincón-Molina, CI; Rincón-Molina; Ruíz-Valdiviezo, Víctor Manuel; Ruíz-Valdiviezo, VM; Ruíz-Valdiviezo; Meza-Gordillo, Rocío; Meza-Gordillo, R; Meza-Gordillo; Villalobos-Maldonado, Juan José; Villalobos-Maldonado, JJ; Villalobos-Maldonado; Vences-Guzmán, Miguel Ángel; Vences-Guzmán, MÁ; Vences-Guzmán; Rincón-Rosales, Reiner; Rincón-Rosales, R; Rincón-Rosales	AMB Express
33250866	RhizoBindingSites, a Database of DNA-Binding Motifs in Nitrogen-Fixing Bacteria Inferred Using a Footprint Discovery Approach.	Basic knowledge of transcriptional regulation is needed to understand the mechanisms governing biological processes, i.e., nitrogen fixation by Rhizobiales bacteria in symbiosis with leguminous plants. The RhizoBindingSites database is a computer-assisted framework providing motif-gene-associated conserved sequences potentially implicated in transcriptional regulation in nine symbiotic species. A dyad analysis algorithm was used to deduce motifs in the upstream regulatory region of orthologous genes, and only motifs also located in the gene seed promoter with a <i>p</i>-value of 1e-4 were accepted. A genomic scan analysis of the upstoream sequences with these motifs was performed. These predicted binding sites were categorized according to low, medium and high homology between the matrix and the upstream regulatory sequence. On average, 62.7% of the genes had a motif, accounting for 80.44% of the genes per genome, with 19613 matrices (a matrix is a representation of a motif). The RhizoBindingSites database provides motif and gene information, motif conservation in the order Rhizobiales, matrices, motif logos, regulatory networks constructed from theoretical or experimental data, a criterion for selecting motifs and a guide for users. The RhizoBindingSites database is freely available online at rhizobindingsites.ccg.unam.mx.	2020	Taboada-Castro, Hermenegildo; Taboada-Castro, H; Taboada-Castro; Castro-Mondragón, Jaime Abraham; Castro-Mondragón, JA; Castro-Mondragón; Aguilar-Vera, Alejandro; Aguilar-Vera, A; Aguilar-Vera; Hernández-Álvarez, Alfredo José; Hernández-Álvarez, AJ; Hernández-Álvarez; van Helden, Jacques; van Helden, J; van Helden; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara	Front Microbiol
32790864	Expression Evolution of Ancestral XY Gametologs across All Major Groups of Placental Mammals.	Placental mammals present 180 million-year-old Y chromosomes that have retained a handful of dosage-sensitive genes. However, the expression evolution of Y-linked genes across placental groups has remained largely unexplored. Here, we expanded the number of Y gametolog sequences by analyzing ten additional species from previously unexplored groups. We detected seven remarkably conserved genes across 25 placental species with known Y repertoires. We then used RNA-seq data from 17 placental mammals to unveil the expression evolution of XY gametologs. We found that Y gametologs followed, on average, a 3-fold expression loss and that X gametologs also experienced some expression reduction, particularly in primates. Y gametologs gained testis specificity through an accelerated expression decay in somatic tissues. Moreover, despite the substantial expression decay of Y genes, the combined expression of XY gametologs in males is higher than that of both X gametologs in females. Finally, our work describes several features of the Y chromosome in the last common mammalian ancestor.	2020 11	Martínez-Pacheco, Mónica; Martínez-Pacheco, M; Martínez-Pacheco; Tenorio, Mariela; Tenorio, M; Tenorio; Almonte, Laura; Almonte, L; Almonte; Fajardo, Vicente; Fajardo, V; Fajardo; Godínez, Alan; Godínez, A; Godínez; Fernández, Diego; Fernández, D; Fernández; Cornejo-Páramo, Paola; Cornejo-Páramo, P; Cornejo-Páramo; Díaz-Barba, Karina; Díaz-Barba, K; Díaz-Barba; Halbert, Jean; Halbert, J; Halbert; Liechti, Angelica; Liechti, A; Liechti; Székely, Tamas; Székely, T; Székely; Urrutia, Araxi O; Urrutia, AO; Urrutia; Cortez, Diego; Cortez, D; Cortez	Genome Biol Evol
33141007	Expansin-related proteins: biology, microbe-plant interactions and associated plant-defense responses.	Expansins, cerato-platanins and swollenins (which we will henceforth refer to as expansin-related proteins) are a group of microbial proteins involved in microbe-plant interactions. Although they share very low sequence similarity, some of their composing domains are near-identical at the structural level. Expansin-related proteins have their target in the plant cell wall, in which they act through a non-enzymatic, but still uncharacterized, mechanism. In most cases, mutagenesis of expansin-related genes affects plant colonization or plant pathogenesis of different bacterial and fungal species, and thus, in many cases they are considered virulence factors. Additionally, plant treatment with expansin-related proteins activate several plant defenses resulting in the priming and protection towards subsequent pathogen encounters. Plant-defence responses induced by these proteins are reminiscent of pattern-triggered immunity or hypersensitive response in some cases. Plant immunity to expansin-related proteins could be caused by the following: (i) protein detection by specific host-cell receptors, (ii) alterations to the cell-wall-barrier properties sensed by the host, (iii) displacement of cell-wall polysaccharides detected by the host. Expansin-related proteins may also target polysaccharides on the wall of the microbes that produced them under certain physiological instances. Here, we review biochemical, evolutionary and biological aspects of these relatively understudied proteins and different immune responses they induce in plant hosts.	2020 11	Narváez-Barragán, Delia A; Narváez-Barragán, DA; Narváez-Barragán; Tovar-Herrera, Omar E; Tovar-Herrera, OE; Tovar-Herrera; Segovia, Lorenzo; Segovia, L; Segovia; Serrano, Mario; Serrano, M; Serrano; Martinez-Anaya, Claudia; Martinez-Anaya, C; Martinez-Anaya	Microbiology (Reading)
32954454	Evolution of an Escherichia coli PTS<sup>-</sup> strain: a study of reproducibility and dynamics of an adaptive evolutive process.	Adaptive laboratory evolution (ALE) has been used to study and solve pressing questions about evolution, especially for the study of the development of mutations that confer increased fitness during evolutionary processes. In this contribution, we investigated how the evolutionary process conducted with the PTS<sup>-</sup> mutant of Escherichia coli PB11 in three parallel batch cultures allowed the restoration of rapid growth with glucose as the carbon source. The significant findings showed that genomic sequence analysis of a set of newly evolved mutants isolated from ALE experiments 2-3 developed some essential mutations, which efficiently improved the fast-growing phenotypes throughout different fitness landscapes. Regulator galR was the target of several mutations such as SNPs, partial and total deletions, and insertion of an IS1 element and thus indicated the relevance of a null mutation of this gene in the adaptation of the evolving population of PB11 during the parallel ALE experiments. These mutations resulted in the selection of MglB and GalP as the primary glucose transporters by the evolving population, but further selection of at least a second adaptive mutation was also necessary. We found that mutations in the yfeO, rppH, and rng genes improved the fitness advantage of evolving PTS<sup>-</sup> mutants and resulted in amplification of leaky activity in Glk for glucose phosphorylation and upregulation of glycolytic and other growth-related genes. Notably, we determined that these mutations appeared and were fixed in the evolving populations between 48 and 72 h of cultivation, which resulted in the selection of fast-growing mutants during one ALE experiments in batch cultures of 80 h duration.Key points• ALE experiments selected evolved mutants through different fitness landscapes in which galR was the target of different mutations: SNPs, deletions, and insertion of IS.• Key mutations in evolving mutants appeared and fixed at 48-72 h of cultivation.• ALE experiments led to increased understanding of the genetics of cellular adaptation to carbon source limitation.	2020 Nov	Carmona, Susy Beatriz; Carmona, SB; Carmona; Flores, Noemí; Flores, N; Flores; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Gosset, Guillermo; Gosset, G; Gosset; Bolívar, Francisco; Bolívar, F; Bolívar; Escalante, Adelfo; Escalante, A; Escalante	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol
32998072	Paraburkholderia lycopersici sp. nov., a nitrogen-fixing species isolated from rhizoplane of Lycopersicon esculentum Mill. var. Saladette in Mexico.	A survey of our in-house bacterial collection identified a group of six strains isolated from the tomato rhizoplane that possessed 16S rRNA gene sequences with 98.2% sequence similarity to Paraburkholderia pallida, suggesting that these strains represented a novel species. Multilocus sequence analysis using gltB, lepA and recA gene sequences showed the clustering of the strains and the BOX-PCR patterns were similar among these strains. The average nucleotide identity and the DNA-DNA virtual hybridization of strain TNe-862<sup>T</sup> was <89% and <34%, respectively, to the genomes of any sequenced Paraburkholderia species. The genome of strain TNe-862<sup>T</sup> possessed all the genes necessary for nitrogen fixation and biosynthesis of indoleacetic acid and antimicrobials terpenes, phosphonates and bacteriocins. It also contained genes for metal resistance, xenobiotic degradation, and hydrolytic enzymes such as a putative chitinase and isoamylase. Even though the strain contained potential genes for degradation of cellulose and starch, the bacterium was unable to utilize these substrates in culture medium. The genome encoded flagella and pili as well as multiple chemotaxis systems. In addition, genes encoding for the type I, II, IV, V and VI secretion systems were also present. The strains grow up to 42°C and 5% NaCl. The optimum growth pH was 8. The major cellular fatty acids were C<sub>16:0</sub> and C<sub>18:1</sub> ω7c. Based on this polyphasic analysis, these strains represent a novel species in the genus Paraburkholderia, for which the name Paraburkholderia lycopersici sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is TNe-862<sup>T</sup> (=LMG 26415<sup>T</sup>=CIP 110323<sup>T</sup>).	2020 Nov	Tapia-García, Erika Yanet; Tapia-García, EY; Tapia-García; Arroyo-Herrera, Ivan; Arroyo-Herrera, I; Arroyo-Herrera; Rojas-Rojas, Fernando Uriel; Rojas-Rojas, FU; Rojas-Rojas; Ibarra, J Antonio; Ibarra, JA; Ibarra; Vásquez-Murrieta, María Soledad; Vásquez-Murrieta, MS; Vásquez-Murrieta; Martínez-Aguilar, Lourdes; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Whitman, William B; Whitman, WB; Whitman; Estrada de Los Santos, Paulina; Estrada de Los Santos, P; Estrada de Los Santos	Syst Appl Microbiol
32984974	Folates in legume root nodules.	Folates are multifunctional metabolites in plants that are essential for cell division, nucleic acids and amino acid synthesis. During symbiotic nitrogen fixation in legumes, these cofactors are needed for de novo purine biosynthesis, meaning that changes in the folate pools could directly affect the flow of fixed nitrogen to the plant. Its role related to symbiotic nitrogen fixation has not been yet explored, but recent data suggest a relevant role during the first steps. Transcriptomic, metabolomic and proteomic analyses indicate that folates are accumulated in symbiotic plant tissue, as they are involved, not only in de novo purines biosynthesis, but in nitrogen translocation, endoreduplication and phytohormones biosynthesis. Understanding the possible implication of folate pools during the nitrogen fixation and assimilation, might aid for new engineering targets, in relation to the two transformylations or the production of glycine by serine hydroxymethyltransferase during the de novo purine biosynthetic pathway. In this review, we intend to deliver and discuss the available evidence that support a relevant role of folates during the symbiotic nitrogen fixation.	2021 Mar	Banuelos, Jacob; Banuelos, J; Banuelos; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Montaño, Noé Manuel; Montaño, NM; Montaño; Camargo-Ricalde, Sara Lucía; Camargo-Ricalde, SL; Camargo-Ricalde	Physiol Plant
33063925	Five structural genes required for ceramide synthesis in Caulobacter and for bacterial survival.	Sphingolipids are essential and common membrane components in eukaryotic organisms, participating in many important cellular functions. Only a few bacteria are thought to harbour sphingolipids in their membranes, among them the well-studied α-proteobacterium Caulobacter crescentus, a model organism for asymmetric cell division and cellular differentiation. Here, we report that C. crescentus wild type produces several molecular species of dihydroceramides, which are not produced in a mutant lacking the structural gene for serine palmitoyltransferase (spt). Whereas growth of a spt-deficient mutant and wild type are indistinguishable during the exponential phase of growth, survival of the spt-deficient mutant is much reduced, in comparison with wild type, during stationary phase of growth, especially at elevated temperatures. The structural gene for spt is located within a genomic cluster, comprising another 16 genes and which, like spt, are important for fitness of C. crescentus. Mutants deficient in genes linked to spt by high cofitness were unable to produce dihydroceramide or to survive in stationary phase of growth at elevated temperatures. At least five structural genes are required for dihydroceramide biosynthesis in C. crescentus and sphingolipid biosynthesis is needed for survival of this bacterium and the integrity of its outer membrane.	2021 01	Olea-Ozuna, Roberto Jhonatan; Olea-Ozuna, RJ; Olea-Ozuna; Poggio, Sebastian; Poggio, S; Poggio; EdBergström; Quiroz-Rocha, Elva; Quiroz-Rocha, E; Quiroz-Rocha; García-Soriano, Daniela A; García-Soriano, DA; García-Soriano; Sahonero-Canavesi, Diana X; Sahonero-Canavesi, DX; Sahonero-Canavesi; Padilla-Gómez, Jonathan; Padilla-Gómez, J; Padilla-Gómez; Martínez-Aguilar, Lourdes; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Thomas-Oates, Jane; Thomas-Oates, J; Thomas-Oates; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	Environ Microbiol
33075080	Fibrillarin evolution through the Tree of Life: Comparative genomics and microsynteny network analyses provide new insights into the evolutionary history of Fibrillarin.	Fibrillarin (FIB), a methyltransferase essential for life in the vast majority of eukaryotes, is involved in methylation of rRNA required for proper ribosome assembly, as well as methylation of histone H2A of promoter regions of rRNA genes. RNA viral progression that affects both plants and animals requires FIB proteins. Despite the importance and high conservation of fibrillarins, there little is known about the evolutionary dynamics of this small gene family. We applied a phylogenomic microsynteny-network approach to elucidate the evolutionary history of FIB proteins across the Tree of Life. We identified 1063 non-redundant FIB sequences across 1049 completely sequenced genomes from Viruses, Bacteria, Archaea, and Eukarya. FIB is a highly conserved single-copy gene through Archaea and Eukarya lineages, except for plants, which have a gene family expansion due to paleopolyploidy and tandem duplications. We found a high conservation of the FIB genomic context during plant evolution. Surprisingly, FIB in mammals duplicated after the Eutheria split (e.g., ruminants, felines, primates) from therian mammals (e.g., marsupials) to form two main groups of sequences, the FIB and FIB-like groups. The FIB-like group transposed to another genomic context and remained syntenic in all the eutherian mammals. This transposition correlates with differences in the expression patterns of FIB-like proteins and with elevated Ks values potentially due to reduced evolutionary constraints of the duplicated copy. Our results point to a unique evolutionary event in mammals, between FIB and FIB-like genes, that led to non-redundant roles of the vital processes in which this protein is involved.	2020 10	Pereira-Santana, Alejandro; Pereira-Santana, A; Pereira-Santana; Gamboa-Tuz, Samuel David; Gamboa-Tuz, SD; Gamboa-Tuz; Zhao, Tao; Zhao, T; Zhao; Schranz, M Eric; Schranz, ME; Schranz; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Bayona, Andrea; Bayona, A; Bayona; Rodríguez-Zapata, Luis C; Rodríguez-Zapata, LC; Rodríguez-Zapata; Castano, Enrique; Castano, E; Castano	PLoS Comput Biol
33178158	Molecular Epidemiology of <i>Acinetobacter calcoaceticus</i>-<i>Acinetobacter baumannii</i> Complex Isolated From Children at the Hospital Infantil de México Federico Gómez.	The <i>Acinetobacter calcoaceticus</i>-<i>baumannii</i> (<i>Acb</i>) complex is regarded as a group of phenotypically indistinguishable opportunistic pathogens responsible for mainly causing hospital-acquired pneumonia and bacteremia. The aim of this study was to determine the frequency of isolation of the species that constitute the <i>Acb</i> complex, as well as their susceptibility to antibiotics, and their distribution at the Hospital Infantil de Mexico Federico Gomez (HIMFG). A total of 88 strains previously identified by Vitek 2®, 40 as <i>Acinetobacter baumannii</i> and 48 as <i>Acb</i> complex were isolated from 52 children from 07, January 2015 to 28, September 2017. <i>A. baumannii</i> accounted for 89.77% (79/88) of the strains; <i>Acinetobacter pittii</i>, 6.82% (6/88); and <i>Acinetobacter nosocomialis</i>, 3.40% (3/88). Most strains were recovered mainly from patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) and emergency wards. Blood cultures (BC) provided 44.32% (39/88) of strains. The 13.63% (12/88) of strains were associated with primary bacteremia, 3.4% (3/88) with secondary bacteremia, and 2.3% (2/88) with pneumonia. In addition, 44.32% (39/88) were multidrug-resistant (MDR) strains and, 11.36% (10/88) were extensively drug-resistant (XDR). All strains amplified the <i>bla</i> <sub>OXA-51</sub> gene; 51.13% (45/88), the <i>bla</i> <sub>OXA-23</sub> gene; 4.54% (4/88), the <i>bla</i> <sub>OXA-24</sub> gene; and 2.27% (2/88), the <i>bla</i> <sub>OXA-58</sub> gene. Plasmid profiles showed that the strains had 1-6 plasmids. The strains were distributed in 52 pulsotypes, and 24 showed identical restriction patterns, with a correlation coefficient of 1.0. Notably, some strains with the same pulsotype were isolated from different patients, wards, or years, suggesting the persistence of more than one clone. Twenty-seven sequence types (STs) were determined for the strains based on a Pasteur multilocus sequence typing (MLST) scheme using massive sequencing; the most prevalent was ST 156 (27.27%, 24/88). The Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats (CRISPR)-Cas I-Fb system provided amplification in <i>A. baumannii</i> and <i>A. pittii</i> strains (22.73%, 20/88). This study identified an increased number of MDR strains and the relationship among strains through molecular typing. The data suggest that more than one strain could be causing an infection in some patient. The implementation of molecular epidemiology allowed the characterization of a set of strains and identification of different attributes associated with its distribution in a specific environment.	2020	Mancilla-Rojano, Jetsi; Mancilla-Rojano, J; Mancilla-Rojano; Ochoa, Sara A; Ochoa, SA; Ochoa; Reyes-Grajeda, Juan Pablo; Reyes-Grajeda, JP; Reyes-Grajeda; Flores, Víctor; Flores, V; Flores; Medina-Contreras, Oscar; Medina-Contreras, O; Medina-Contreras; Espinosa-Mazariego, Karina; Espinosa-Mazariego, K; Espinosa-Mazariego; Parra-Ortega, Israel; Parra-Ortega, I; Parra-Ortega; Rosa-Zamboni, Daniela De La; Rosa-Zamboni, D; Rosa-Zamboni; Castellanos-Cruz, María Del Carmen; Castellanos-Cruz, MDC; Castellanos-Cruz; Arellano-Galindo, José; Arellano-Galindo, J; Arellano-Galindo; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Hernández-Castro, Rigoberto; Hernández-Castro, R; Hernández-Castro; Xicohtencatl-Cortes, Juan; Xicohtencatl-Cortes, J; Xicohtencatl-Cortes; Cruz-Córdova, Ariadnna; Cruz-Córdova, A; Cruz-Córdova	Front Microbiol
33049445	Arabidopsis adc-silenced line exhibits differential defense responses to Botrytis cinerea and Pseudomonas syringae infection.	During plant-microbe interactions, polyamines participate in the plant defense response. Previously, we reported that silencing of ADC genes in Arabidopsis thaliana causes a drastic reduction of polyamine levels as well as increments in reactive oxygen species content. In this study, we examined the response of the adc-silenced line to Botrytis cinerea and Pseudomonas syringae infection. The adc-silenced line was more susceptible to Botrytis cinerea, showing larger lesion length and a higher incidence of fungal infection. Pre-treatments with putrescine reestablished the response of the adc-silenced line to Botrytis cinerea, resulting in a similar phenotype to the parental plant. Expression levels of defense-related genes were analyzed during fungal infection showing that the salicylic acid-induced gene PR1 was up-regulated, while the jasmonic acid-related genes LOX3 and PDF1.2, as well as, the camalexin biosynthetic gene PAD3 were down-regulated in the adc-silenced line. Furthermore, methyl jasmonate pre-treatments reduced Botrytis cinerea infection in the adc-silenced line. On the other hand, the adc-silenced line showed an increased resistance to Pseudomonas syringae infection. SA-related genes such as PR1, ZAT1.2, WRKY54 and WRKY70 were highly expressed in the adc-silenced line upon bacterial interaction. Our data show that the adc-silenced line has altered the defense-response against Botrytis cinerea and Pseudomonas syringae, that is consistent with deregulation of SA- and JA-mediated response pathways.	2020 Nov	Chávez-Martínez, Ana Isabel; Chávez-Martínez, AI; Chávez-Martínez; Ortega-Amaro, María Azucena; Ortega-Amaro, MA; Ortega-Amaro; Torres, Martha; Torres, M; Torres; Serrano, Mario; Serrano, M; Serrano; Jiménez-Bremont, Juan Francisco; Jiménez-Bremont, JF; Jiménez-Bremont	Plant Physiol Biochem
32504325	Bacillus toyonensis COPE52 Modifies Lipid and Fatty Acid Composition, Exhibits Antifungal Activity, and Stimulates Growth of Tomato Plants Under Saline Conditions.	Salinity is one of the most important factors that limit the productivity of agricultural soils. Certain plant growth-promoting bacteria (PGPB) have the ability to stimulate the growth of crop plants even under salt stress. In the present study, we analysed the potential of PGPB Bacillus toyonensis COPE52 to improve the growth of tomato plants and its capacity to modify its membrane lipid and fatty acid composition under salt stress. Thus, strain COPE52 increased the relative amount of branched chain fatty acids (15:0i and 16:1∆9) and accumulation of an unknown membrane lipid, while phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) levels decreased during growth with 100 and 200 mM NaCl. Importantly, direct and indirect plant growth-promoting (PGP) mechanisms of B. toyonensis COPE52, such as indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), protease activity, biofilm formation, and antifungal activity against Botrytis cinerea, remained unchanged in the presence of NaCl in vitro, compared to controls without salt. In a greenhouse experiment, tomato plants (Lycopersicon esculentum 'Saladette') showed increased shoot and root length, higher dry biomass, and chlorophyll content when inoculated with B. toyonensis COPE52 at 0 and 100 mM NaCl. In summary, these results indicate that Bacillus toyonensis COPE52 can modify cell membrane lipid components as a potential protecting mechanism to maintain PGP traits under saline-soil conditions.	2020 Oct	Rojas-Solis, Daniel; Rojas-Solis, D; Rojas-Solis; Vences-Guzmán, Miguel A; Vences-Guzmán, MA; Vences-Guzmán; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Santoyo, Gustavo; Santoyo, G; Santoyo	Curr Microbiol
32995914	Rhizobium etli CE3-DsRed pMP604: a useful biological tool to study initial infection steps in Phaseolus vulgaris nodulation.	Rhizobium etli CE3-DsRed pMP604 drives infection 12-24 h earlier than R. etli CE3-DsRed and it is an excellent tool in live-cell imaging studies of IT developement in P. vulgaris roots. The study of the cellular dynamics of nodulation has frequently been limited by the difficulty of performing live-cell imaging in nodule primordia and legume roots, which are constituted by multiple cell layers, such is the case of Phaseolus vulgaris. Seeking conditions to reduce the time it takes for rhizobia to infect P. vulgaris root, we decided to explore the nodulation properties of Rhizobium etli CE3 pMP604, a strain that constitutively produces Nod factors through a flavonoids-independent transcriptional activation which is often used to purify Nod factors. Even though the strain infects 12-24 h earlier than the parental R. etli CE3 strain, infection thread (IT) formation, nodule organogenesis processes and N<sub>2</sub>-fixation activity are similar for both strains. Additionally, we have confirmed that R. etli CE3-DsRed pMP604 is an excellent tool to trace IT development in P. vulgaris roots.	2020 Sep	Dávila-Delgado, Raúl; Dávila-Delgado, R; Dávila-Delgado; Bañuelos-Vazquez, Luis Alfredo; Bañuelos-Vazquez, LA; Bañuelos-Vazquez; Monroy-Morales, Elizabeth; Monroy-Morales, E; Monroy-Morales; Sánchez-López, Rosana; Sánchez-López, R; Sánchez-López	Planta
32984920	Metabolic reconstruction of Pseudomonas chlororaphis ATCC 9446 to understand its metabolic potential as a phenazine-1-carboxamide-producing strain.	Pseudomonas chlororaphis is a plant-associated bacterium with reported antagonistic activity against different organisms and plant growth-promoting properties. P. chlororaphis possesses exciting biotechnological features shared with another Pseudomonas with a nonpathogenic phenotype. Part of the antagonistic role of P. chlororaphis is due to its production of a wide variety of phenazines. To expand the knowledge of the metabolic traits of this organism, we constructed the first experimentally validated genome-scale model of P. chlororaphis ATCC 9446, containing 1267 genes and 2289 reactions, and analyzed strategies to maximize its potential for the production of phenazine-1-carboxamide (PCN). The resulting model also describes the capability of P. chlororaphis to carry out the denitrification process and its ability to consume sucrose (Scr), trehalose, mannose, and galactose as carbon sources. Additionally, metabolic network analysis suggested fatty acids as the best carbon source for PCN production. Moreover, the optimization of PCN production was performed with glucose and glycerol. The optimal PCN production phenotype requires an increased carbon flux in TCA and glutamine synthesis. Our simulations highlight the intrinsic H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> flux associated with PCN production, which may generate cellular stress in an overproducing strain. These results suggest that an improved antioxidative strategy could lead to optimal performance of phenazine-producing strains of P. chlororaphis. KEY POINTS : • This is the first publication of a metabolic model for a strain of P. chlororaphis. • Genome-scale model is worthy tool to increase the knowledge of a non model organism. • Fluxes simulations indicate a possible effect of H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> on phenazines production. • P. chlororaphis can be a suitable model for a wide variety of compounds.	2020 Dec	Moreno-Avitia, Fabián; Moreno-Avitia, F; Moreno-Avitia; Utrilla, José; Utrilla, J; Utrilla; Bolívar, Francisco; Bolívar, F; Bolívar; Nogales, Juan; Nogales, J; Nogales; Escalante, Adelfo; Escalante, A; Escalante	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol
33042043	Genomic Analysis Reveals the Genetic Determinants Associated With Antibiotic Resistance in the Zoonotic Pathogen <i>Campylobacter</i> spp. Distributed Globally.	The genus <i>Campylobacter</i> groups 32 Gram-negative bacteria species, several being zoonotic pathogens and a major cause of human gastroenteritis worldwide. Antibiotic resistant <i>Campylobacter</i> is considered by the World Health Organization as a high priority pathogen for research and development of new antibiotics. Genetic elements related to antibiotic resistance in the classical <i>C. coli</i> and <i>C. jejuni</i> species, which infect humans and livestock, have been analyzed in numerous studies, mainly focused on local geographical areas. However, the presence of these resistance determinants in other <i>Campylobacter</i> species, as well as in <i>C. jejuni</i> and <i>C. coli</i> strains distributed globally, remains poorly studied. In this work, we analyzed the occurrence and distribution of antibiotic resistance factors in 237 <i>Campylobacter</i> closed genomes available in NCBI, obtained from isolates collected worldwide, in different dates, from distinct hosts and comprising 22 <i>Campylobacter</i> species. Our data revealed 18 distinct genetic determinants, genes or point mutations in housekeeping genes, associated with resistance to antibiotics from aminoglycosides, β-lactams, fluoroquinolones, lincosamides, macrolides, phenicols or tetracyclines classes, which are differentially distributed among the <i>Campylobacter</i> species tested, on chromosomes or plasmids. Three resistance determinants, the <i>bla</i> <sub>OXA-493</sub> and <i>bla</i> <sub>OXA-576</sub> genes, putatively related to β-lactams resistance, as well as the <i>lnu</i>(AN2) gene, putatively related to lincosamides resistance, had not been reported in <i>Campylobacter</i>; thus, they represent novel determinants for antibiotic resistance in <i>Campylobacter</i> spp., which expands the insight on the <i>Campylobacter</i> resistome. Interestingly, we found that some of the genetic determinants associated with antibiotic resistance are <i>Campylobacter</i> species-specific; e.g., the <i>bla</i> <sub>OXA-493</sub> gene and the T86V mutation in <i>gyrA</i> were found only in the <i>C. lari</i> group, whereas genes associated with aminoglycosides resistance were found only in <i>C. jejuni</i> and <i>C. coli</i>. Additional analyses revealed how are distributed the resistance and multidrug resistance <i>Campylobacter</i> genotypes assessed, with respect to hosts, geographical locations, and collection dates. Thus, our findings further expand the knowledge on the factors that can determine or favor the antibiotic resistance in <i>Campylobacter</i> species distributed globally, which can be useful to choose a suitable antibiotic treatment to control the zoonotic infections by these bacteria.	2020	Rivera-Mendoza, Daniel; Rivera-Mendoza, D; Rivera-Mendoza; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; Santamaría, Rosa I; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Bustamante, Víctor H; Bustamante, VH; Bustamante; Pérez-Morales, Deyanira; Pérez-Morales, D; Pérez-Morales	Front Microbiol
32887277	Soil Type Affects Organic Acid Production and Phosphorus Solubilization Efficiency Mediated by Several Native Fungal Strains from Mexico.	Phosphorus (P) is considered a scarce macronutrient for plants in most tropical soils. The application of rock phosphate (RP) has been used to fertilize crops, but the amount of P released is not always at a necessary level for the plant. An alternative to this problem is the use of Phosphorus Solubilizing Microorganisms (PSM) to release P from chemically unavailable forms. This study compared the P sorption capacity of soils (the ability to retain P, making it unavailable for the plant) and the profile of organic acids (OA) produced by fungal isolates and the in vitro solubilization efficiency of RP. <i>Trichoderma</i> and <i>Aspergillus</i> strains were assessed in media with or without RP and different soils (Andisol, Alfisol, Vertisol). The type and amount of OA and the amount of soluble P were quantified, and according to our data, under the conditions tested, significant differences were observed in the OA profiles and the amount of soluble P present in the different soils. The efficiency to solubilize RP lies in the release of OAs with low acidity constants independent of the concentration at which they are released. It is proposed that the main mechanism of RP dissolution is the production of OAs.	2020 Sep	Zúñiga-Silgado, Dorcas; Zúñiga-Silgado, D; Zúñiga-Silgado; Rivera-Leyva, Julio C; Rivera-Leyva, JC; Rivera-Leyva; Coleman, Jeffrey J; Coleman, JJ; Coleman; Sánchez-Reyez, Ayixon; Sánchez-Reyez, A; Sánchez-Reyez; Valencia-Díaz, Susana; Valencia-Díaz, S; Valencia-Díaz; Serrano, Mario; Serrano, M; Serrano; de-Bashan, Luz E; de-Bashan, LE; de-Bashan; Folch-Mallol, Jorge L; Folch-Mallol, JL; Folch-Mallol	Microorganisms
32661378	A quantitative method for proteome reallocation using minimal regulatory interventions.	Engineering resource allocation in biological systems is an ongoing challenge. Organisms allocate resources for ensuring survival, reducing the productivity of synthetic biology functions. Here we present a new approach for engineering the resource allocation of Escherichia coli by rationally modifying its transcriptional regulatory network. Our method (ReProMin) identifies the minimal set of genetic interventions that maximizes the savings in cell resources. To this end, we categorized transcription factors according to the essentiality of its targets and we used proteomic data to rank them. We designed the combinatorial removal of transcription factors that maximize the release of resources. Our resulting strain containing only three mutations, theoretically releasing 0.5% of its proteome, had higher proteome budget, increased production of an engineered metabolic pathway and showed that the regulatory interventions are highly specific. This approach shows that combining proteomic and regulatory data is an effective way of optimizing strains using conventional molecular methods.	2020 09	Lastiri-Pancardo, Gustavo; Lastiri-Pancardo, G; Lastiri-Pancardo; Mercado-Hernández, Jonathan S; Mercado-Hernández, JS; Mercado-Hernández; Kim, Juhyun; Kim, J; Kim; Jiménez, José I; Jiménez, JI; Jiménez; Utrilla, José; Utrilla, J; Utrilla	Nat Chem Biol
32823980	Aromatic Hydrocarbon Removal by Novel Extremotolerant <i>Exophiala</i> and <i>Rhodotorula</i> Spp. from an Oil Polluted Site in Mexico.	Since Aromatic hydrocarbons are recalcitrant and toxic, strategies to remove them are needed. The aim of this work was to isolate fungi capable of using aromatic hydrocarbons as carbon sources. Two isolates from an oil polluted site in Mexico were identified through morphological and molecular markers as a novel <i>Rhodotorula</i> sp. and an <i>Exophiala</i> sp. Both strains were able to grow in a wide range of pH media, from 4 to 12, showing their optimal growth at alkaline pH's and are both halotolerant. The <i>Exophiala</i> strain switched from hyphae to yeast morphotype in high salinity conditions. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of salt triggering dimorphism. The <i>Rhodotorula</i> strain, which is likely a new undescribed species, was capable of removing singled ringed aromatic compounds such as benzene, xylene, and toluene, but could not remove benzo[<i>a</i>] pyrene nor phenanthrene. Nevertheless, these hydrocarbons did not impair its growth. The <i>Exophiala</i> strain showed a different removal capacity. It could remove the polyaromatic hydrocarbons but performed poorly at removing toluene and xylene. Nevertheless, it still could grow well in the presence of the aromatic compounds. These strains could have a potential for aromatic compounds removal.	2020 Aug	Ide-Pérez, Martín R; Ide-Pérez, MR; Ide-Pérez; Fernández-López, Maikel Gilberto; Fernández-López, MG; Fernández-López; Sánchez-Reyes, Ayixon; Sánchez-Reyes, A; Sánchez-Reyes; Leija, Alfonso; Leija, A; Leija; Batista-García, Ramón Alberto; Batista-García, RA; Batista-García; Folch-Mallol, Jorge Luis; Folch-Mallol, JL; Folch-Mallol; Sánchez-Carbente, María Del Rayo; Sánchez-Carbente, MDR; Sánchez-Carbente	J Fungi (Basel)
32847781	Plant microbiota modified by plant domestication.	Human life became largely dependent on agricultural products after distinct crop-domestication events occurred around 10,000 years ago in different geographical sites. Domestication selected suitable plants for human agricultural practices with unexpected consequences on plant microbiota, which has notable effects on plant growth and health. Among other traits, domestication has changed root architecture, exudation, or defense responses that could have modified plant microbiota. Here we present the comparison of reported data on the microbiota from widely consumed cereals and legumes and their ancestors showing that different bacteria were found in domesticated and wild plant microbiomes in some cases. Considering the large variability in plant microbiota, adequate sampling efforts and function-based approaches are needed to further support differences between the microbiota from wild and domesticated plants. The study of wild plant microbiomes could provide a valuable resource of unexploited beneficial bacteria for crops.	2020 Sep	Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Aguirre-Noyola, José Luis; Aguirre-Noyola, JL; Aguirre-Noyola; Taco-Taype, Nataly; Taco-Taype, N; Taco-Taype; Martínez-Romero, Julio; Martínez-Romero, J; Martínez-Romero; Zuñiga-Dávila, Doris; Zuñiga-Dávila, D; Zuñiga-Dávila	Syst Appl Microbiol
32967123	Plasmid DNA Production in Proteome-Reduced <i>Escherichia coli</i>.	The design of optimal cell factories requires engineering resource allocation for maximizing product synthesis. A recently developed method to maximize the saving in cell resources released 0.5% of the proteome of <i>Escherichia coli</i> by deleting only three transcription factors. We assessed the capacity for plasmid DNA (pDNA) production in the proteome-reduced strain in a mineral medium, lysogeny, and terrific broths. In all three cases, the pDNA yield from biomass was between 33 and 53% higher in the proteome-reduced than in its wild type strain. When cultured in fed-batch mode in shake-flask, the proteome-reduced strain produced 74.8 mg L<sup>-1</sup> pDNA, which was four times greater than its wild-type strain. Nevertheless, the pDNA supercoiled fraction was less than 60% in all cases. Deletion of <i>recA</i> increased the pDNA yields in the wild type, but not in the proteome-reduced strain. Furthermore, <i>recA</i> mutants produced a higher fraction of supercoiled pDNA, compared to their parents. These results show that the novel proteome reduction approach is a promising starting point for the design of improved pDNA production hosts.	2020 Sep	de la Cruz, Mitzi; de la Cruz, M; de la Cruz; Ramírez, Elisa A; Ramírez, EA; Ramírez; Sigala, Juan-Carlos; Sigala, JC; Sigala; Utrilla, José; Utrilla, J; Utrilla; Lara, Alvaro R; Lara, AR; Lara	Microorganisms
32807071	Sex determination systems in reptiles are related to ambient temperature but not to the level of climatic fluctuation.	Vertebrates exhibit diverse sex determination systems and reptiles stand out by having highly variable sex determinations that include temperature-dependent and genotypic sex determination (TSD and GSD, respectively). Theory predicts that populations living in either highly variable or cold climatic conditions should evolve genotypic sex determination to buffer the populations from extreme sex ratios, yet these fundamental predictions have not been tested across a wide range of taxa.	2020 08	Cornejo-Páramo, Paola; Cornejo-Páramo, P; Cornejo-Páramo; Lira-Noriega, Andrés; Lira-Noriega, A; Lira-Noriega; Ramírez-Suástegui, Ciro; Ramírez-Suástegui, C; Ramírez-Suástegui; Méndez-de-la-Cruz, Fausto R; Méndez-de-la-Cruz, FR; Méndez-de-la-Cruz; Székely, Tamás; Székely, T; Székely; Urrutia, Araxi O; Urrutia, AO; Urrutia; Cortez, Diego; Cortez, D; Cortez	BMC Evol Biol
32954844	Isolation and first draft genome sequence of a linezolid-dependent <i>Staphylococcus aureus</i> clinical strain.	<b>Background:</b> Antibiotic-dependent pathogenic bacteria are sporadically isolated from patients that received prolonged antibiotic treatments. Evolution of antibiotics dependence and its clinical implications are scarcely studied. <b>Materials & methods:</b> A linezolid-dependent <i>Staphylococcus aureus</i> strain was isolated from a cystic fibrosis patient. A draft genome sequence was obtained and searched for known antibiotics resistance determinants and virulence factors. <b>Results:</b> The genome was assembled into 79 contigs for a total of 2.83 Mbp. This strain is a sequence type 5 methicillin-resistant <i>Staphylococcus aureus</i> with a type I SCC<i>mec</i> cassette also conserving the Panton-Valentine leukocidin. The G2576T substitution, conferring linezolid resistance, was harbored by all five copies of the 23S rRNA. <b>Conclusion:</b> The linezolid-dependent strain is related to a strain circulating in Latin America that acquired a mutation conferring linezolid resistance.	2020 08	García-Angulo, Víctor A; García-Angulo, VA; García-Angulo; Herve, Beatrice; Herve, B; Herve; Melo, Joel; Melo, J; Melo; Sanhueza, Camila; Sanhueza, C; Sanhueza; la Fuente, Sebastián De; la Fuente, S; la Fuente; Aguirre, Luis Lozano; Aguirre, LL; Aguirre; Baysdorfer, Chris; Baysdorfer, C; Baysdorfer; Ulloa, María Teresa; Ulloa, MT; Ulloa	Future Microbiol
32503911	Nitrogen Fixation in Pozol, a Traditional Fermented Beverage.	Traditional fermentations have been widely studied from the microbiological point of view, but little is known from the functional perspective. In this work, nitrogen fixation by free-living nitrogen-fixing bacteria was conclusively demonstrated in pozol, a traditional Mayan beverage prepared with nixtamalized and fermented maize dough. Three aspects of nitrogen fixation were investigated to ensure that fixation actually happens in the dough: (i) the detection of acetylene reduction activity directly in the substrate, (ii) the presence of potential diazotrophs, and (iii) an <i>in situ</i> increase in acetylene reduction by inoculation with one of the microorganisms isolated from the dough. Three genera were identified by sequencing the 16S rRNA and <i>nifH</i> genes as <i>Kosakonia</i>, <i>Klebsiella</i>, and <i>Enterobacter</i>, and their ability to fix nitrogen was confirmed.<b>IMPORTANCE</b> Nitrogen-fixing bacteria are found in different niches, as symbionts in plants, in the intestinal microbiome of several insects, and as free-living microorganisms. Their use in agriculture for plant growth promotion via biological nitrogen fixation has been extensively reported. This work demonstrates the ecological and functional importance that these bacteria can have in food fermentations, reevaluating the presence of these genera as an element that enriches the nutritional value of the dough.	2020 08	Rizo, Jocelin; Rizo, J; Rizo; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Guillén, Daniel; Guillén, D; Guillén; Wacher, Carmen; Wacher, C; Wacher; Martinez-Romero, Esperanza; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Sánchez, Sergio; Sánchez, S; Sánchez; Rodríguez-Sanoja, Romina; Rodríguez-Sanoja, R; Rodríguez-Sanoja	Appl Environ Microbiol
32468038	Principal component analysis on LC‑MS/MS and 2DE‑MALDI‑TOF in glioblastoma cell lines reveals that mitochondria act as organelle sensors of the metabolic state in glioblastoma.	Glioblastoma is a difficult disease to diagnose. Proteomic techniques are commonly applied in biomedical research, and can be useful for early detection, making an accurate diagnosis and reducing mortality. The relevance of mitochondria in brain development and function is well known; therefore, mitochondria may influence the development of glioblastoma. The T98G (with oxidative metabolism) and U87MG (with glycolytic metabolism) cell lines are considered to be useful glioblastoma models for studying these tumors and the role of mitochondria in key aspects of this disease, such as prognosis, metastasis and apoptosis. In the present study, principal component analysis of protein abundance data identified by liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry (LC‑MS/MS) and matrix‑assisted laser desorption/ionization‑time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI‑TOF) from 2D gels indicated that representative mitochondrial proteins were associated with glioblastoma. The selected proteins were organized into T98G‑ and U87MG‑specific protein‑protein interaction networks to demonstrate the representativeness of both proteomic techniques. Gene Ontology overrepresentation analysis based on the relevant proteins revealed that mitochondrial processes were associated with metabolic changes, invasion and metastasis in glioblastoma, along with other non‑mitochondrial processes, such as DNA translation, chaperone responses and autophagy. Despite the lower resolution of 2D electrophoresis, principal component analysis yielded information of comparable quality to that of LC‑MS/MS. The present analysis pipeline described a specific and more complete metabolic status for each cell line, defined a clear mitochondrial performance for distinct glioblastoma tumors, and introduced a useful strategy to understand the heterogeneity of glioblastoma.	2020 08	Gómez-Caudillo, Leopoldo; Gómez-Caudillo, L; Gómez-Caudillo; Ortega-Lozano, Ariadna J; Ortega-Lozano, AJ; Ortega-Lozano; Martínez-Batallar, Ángel G; Martínez-Batallar, ÁG; Martínez-Batallar; Rosas-Vargas, Haydee; Rosas-Vargas, H; Rosas-Vargas; Minauro-Sanmiguel, Fernando; Minauro-Sanmiguel, F; Minauro-Sanmiguel; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara	Oncol Rep
32461312	The Concerted Action of Two B3-Like Prophage Genes Excludes Superinfecting Bacteriophages by Blocking DNA Entry into Pseudomonas aeruginosa.	In this study, we describe seven vegetative phage genomes homologous to the historic phage B3 that infect <i>Pseudomonas aeruginosa</i> Like other phage groups, the B3-like group contains conserved (core) and variable (accessory) open reading frames (ORFs) grouped at fixed regions in their genomes; however, in either case, many ORFs remain without assigned functions. We constructed lysogens of the seven B3-like phages in strain Ps33 of <i>P. aeruginosa</i>, a novel clinical isolate, and assayed the exclusion phenotype against a variety of temperate and virulent superinfecting phages. In addition to the classic exclusion conferred by the phage immunity repressor, the phenotype observed in B3-like lysogens suggested the presence of other exclusion genes. We set out to identify the genes responsible for this exclusion phenotype. Phage Ps56 was chosen as the study subject since it excluded numerous temperate and virulent phages. Restriction of the Ps56 genome, cloning of several fragments, and resection of the fragments that retained the exclusion phenotype allowed us to identify two core ORFs, so far without any assigned function, as responsible for a type of exclusion. Neither gene expressed separately from plasmids showed activity, but the concurrent expression of both ORFs is needed for exclusion. Our data suggest that phage adsorption occurs but that phage genome translocation to the host's cytoplasm is defective. To our knowledge, this is the first report on this type of exclusion mediated by a prophage in <i>P. aeruginosa</i> <b>IMPORTANCE</b> <i>Pseudomonas aeruginosa</i> is a Gram-negative bacterium frequently isolated from infected immunocompromised patients, and the strains are resistant to a broad spectrum of antibiotics. Recently, the use of phages has been proposed as an alternative therapy against multidrug-resistant bacteria. However, this approach may present various hurdles. This work addresses the problem that pathogenic bacteria may be lysogenized by phages carrying genes encoding resistance against secondary infections, such as those used in phage therapy. Discovering phage genes that exclude superinfecting phages not only assigns novel functions to orphan genes in databases but also provides insight into selection of the proper phages for use in phage therapy.	2020 07	Carballo-Ontiveros, Marco Antonio; Carballo-Ontiveros, MA; Carballo-Ontiveros; Cazares, Adrián; Cazares, A; Cazares; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Kameyama, Luis; Kameyama, L; Kameyama; Guarneros, Gabriel; Guarneros, G; Guarneros	J Virol
32849381	Transfer of the Symbiotic Plasmid of <i>Rhizobium etli</i> CFN42 to Endophytic Bacteria Inside Nodules.	Conjugative transfer is one of the mechanisms allowing diversification and evolution of bacteria. <i>Rhizobium etli</i> CFN42 is a bacterial strain whose habitat is the rhizosphere and is able to form nodules as a result of the nitrogen-fixing symbiotic relationship it may establish with the roots of <i>Phaseolus vulgaris</i>. <i>R. etli</i> CFN42 contains one chromosome and six large plasmids (pRet42a - pRet42f). Most of the genetic information involved in the establishment of the symbiosis is localized on plasmid pRet42d, named as the symbiotic plasmid (pSym). This plasmid is able to perform conjugation, using pSym encoded transfer genes controlled by the RctA/RctB system. Another plasmid of CFN42, pRet42a, has been shown to perform conjugative transfer not only <i>in vitro</i>, but also on the surface of roots and inside nodules, using other rhizobia as recipients. In addition to the rhizobia involved in the formation of nodules, these structures have been shown to contain endophytic bacteria from different genera and species. In this work, we have explored the conjugative transfer of the pSym (pRet42d) from <i>R. etli</i> CFN42 to endophytic bacteria as putative recipients, using as donor a CFN42 derivative labeled with GFP in the pRet42d and RFP in the chromosome. We were able to isolate some transconjugants, which inherit the GFP, but not the RFP marker. Some of them were identified, analyzed and evaluated for their ability to nodulate. We found transconjugants from genera such as <i>Stenotrophomonas</i>, <i>Achromobacter</i>, and <i>Bacillus</i>, among others. Although all the transconjugants carried the GFP marker, and <i>nod, fix</i>, and <i>nif</i> genes from pRet42d, not all were able to nodulate. Ultrastructure microscopy analysis showed some differences in the structure of the nodules of one of the transconjugants. A replicon of the size of pRet42d (371 Kb) could not be visualized in the transconjugants, suggesting that the pSym or a segment of the plasmid is integrated in the chromosome of the recipients. These findings strengthen the proposal that nodules constitute a propitious environment for exchange of genetic information among bacteria, in addition to their function as structures where nitrogen fixation and assimilation takes place.	2020	Bañuelos-Vazquez, Luis Alfredo; Bañuelos-Vazquez, LA; Bañuelos-Vazquez; Cazares, Daniel; Cazares, D; Cazares; Rodríguez, Susana; Rodríguez, S; Rodríguez; Cervantes-De la Luz, Laura; Cervantes-De la Luz, L; Cervantes-De la Luz; Sánchez-López, Rosana; Sánchez-López, R; Sánchez-López; Castellani, Lucas G; Castellani, LG; Castellani; Tejerizo, Gonzalo Torres; Tejerizo, GT; Tejerizo; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom	Front Microbiol
32571917	Genetic dominance governs the evolution and spread of mobile genetic elements in bacteria.	Mobile genetic elements (MGEs), such as plasmids, promote bacterial evolution through horizontal gene transfer (HGT). However, the rules governing the repertoire of traits encoded on MGEs remain unclear. In this study, we uncovered the central role of genetic dominance shaping genetic cargo in MGEs, using antibiotic resistance as a model system. MGEs are typically present in more than one copy per host bacterium, and as a consequence, genetic dominance favors the fixation of dominant mutations over recessive ones. In addition, genetic dominance also determines the phenotypic effects of horizontally acquired MGE-encoded genes, silencing recessive alleles if the recipient bacterium already carries a wild-type copy of the gene. The combination of these two effects governs the catalog of genes encoded on MGEs. Our results help to understand how MGEs evolve and spread, uncovering the neglected influence of genetic dominance on bacterial evolution. Moreover, our findings offer a framework to forecast the spread and evolvability of MGE-encoded genes, which encode traits of key human interest, such as virulence or antibiotic resistance.	2020 07	Rodríguez-Beltrán, Jerónimo; Rodríguez-Beltrán, J; Rodríguez-Beltrán; Sørum, Vidar; Sørum, V; Sørum; Toll-Riera, Macarena; Toll-Riera, M; Toll-Riera; de la Vega, Carmen; de la Vega, C; de la Vega; Peña-Miller, Rafael; Peña-Miller, R; Peña-Miller; San Millán, Álvaro; San Millán, Á; San Millán	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
33457783	The mitogenome of <i>Pseudocrossidium replicatum</i>, a desiccation-tolerant moss.	Bryophytes are the earliest plant group on Earth. They are a fundamental component of many ecosystems around the World. Some of their main roles are related to soil development, water retention, and biogeochemical cycling. Bryophytes include liverworts, hornworts, and mosses. The sequencing of chloroplast and mitochondria genomes has been useful to elucidate the taxonomy of this heterogeneous plant group. To date, despite their ecological importance only 41 mosses mitogenomes have been deposited in the GenBank. Here, the complete mitochondria genome sequence of <i>Pseudocrossidium replicatum</i>, a moss of the Pottiaceae family isolated in Tlaxcala, Mexico, is reported. The mitochondrial genome size of <i>P. replicatum</i> comprises 105,495 bp and contains the groups of genes described for other bryophytes mitogenomes. Our phylogenetic analysis shows that during the evolution of the mosses' mitogenome, <i>nad7</i>, <i>rps4</i>, <i>rpl16</i>, and <i>rpl10</i> genes were lost independently in several lineages. The complete mitogenome sequence reported here would be a useful tool for our comprehension of the evolutionary and population genetics of this group of plants.	2020 Jun	Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Guerrero, Gabriela; Guerrero, G; Guerrero; Ríos, Selma; Ríos, S; Ríos; Arroyo, Analilia; Arroyo, A; Arroyo; Villalobos, Miguel Angel; Villalobos, MA; Villalobos; Porta, Helena; Porta, H; Porta	Mitochondrial DNA B Resour
32268286	Bioimmobilization of toxic metals by precipitation of carbonates using Sporosarcina luteola: An in vitro study and application to sulfide-bearing tailings.	Metal release from mining wastes is a major environmental problem affecting ecosystems that requires effective, low-cost strategies for prevention and reclamation. The capacity of two strains (UB3 and UB5) of Sporosarcina luteola was investigated to induce the sequestration of metals by precipitation of carbonates in vitro and under microcosm conditions. These strains carry the ureC gene and have high urease activity. Also, they are highly resistant to metals and have the capacity for producing metallophores and arsenophores. SEM, EDX and XRD reveal that the two strains induced precipitation of calcite, vaterite and magnesian calcite as well as several (M<sup>2+</sup>)CO<sub>3</sub> such as hydromagnesite (Mg<sup>2+</sup>), rhodochrosite (Mn<sup>2+</sup>), cerussite (Pb<sup>2+</sup>), otavite (Cd<sup>2+</sup>), strontianite (Sr<sup>2+</sup>), witherite (Ba<sup>2+</sup>) and hydrozincite (Zn<sup>2+</sup>) in vitro. Inoculation of the mixed culture of UB3+UB5 in tailings increased the pH and induced the precipitation of vaterite, calcite and smithsonite enhancing biocementation and reducing pore size and permeability slowing down the oxidation of residual sulfides. Results further demonstrated that the strains of S. luteola immobilize bioavailable toxic elements through the precipitation and coprecipitation of thermodynamically stable (M<sup>2+</sup>)CO<sub>3</sub>, Fe-Mn oxyhydroxides and organic chelates.	2020 Jul	Cuaxinque-Flores, Gustavo; Cuaxinque-Flores, G; Cuaxinque-Flores; Aguirre-Noyola, José Luis; Aguirre-Noyola, JL; Aguirre-Noyola; Hernández-Flores, Giovanni; Hernández-Flores, G; Hernández-Flores; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Romero-Ramírez, Yanet; Romero-Ramírez, Y; Romero-Ramírez; Talavera-Mendoza, Oscar; Talavera-Mendoza, O; Talavera-Mendoza	Sci Total Environ
32428730	Ca<sub>V</sub>3.1 channel pore pseudo-symmetry revealed by selectivity filter mutations in its domains I/II.	There is growing evidence indicating that the pore structure of voltage-gated ion channels (VGICs) influences gating besides their conductance. Regarding low voltage-activated (LVA) Ca<sup>2+</sup> channels, it has been demonstrated that substitutions of the pore aspartate (D) by a glutamate (D-to-E substitution) in domains III and IV alter channel gating properties such as a positive shift in the channel activation voltage dependence. In the present report, we evaluated the effects of E-to-D substitution in domains I and II on the Ca<sub>V</sub>3.1 channel gating properties. Our results indicate that substitutions in these two domains differentially modify the gating properties of Ca<sub>V</sub>3.1 channels. The channel with a single mutation in domain I (DEDD) presented slower activation and faster inactivation kinetics and a slower recovery from inactivation, as compared with the WT channel. In contrast, the single mutant in domain II (EDDD) presented a small but significant negative shift of activation voltage dependence with faster activation and slower inactivation kinetics. Finally, the double mutant channel (DDDD) presented somehow intermediate properties with respect to the two single mutants but with fastest deactivation kinetics. Overall, our results indicate that single amino acid modification of the selectivity filter of LVA Ca<sup>2+</sup> channels in distinct domains differentially influence their gating properties, supporting a pore pseudo-symmetry.	2020 07	Garza-López, Edgar; Garza-López, E; Garza-López; Aldana, Andrés; Aldana, A; Aldana; Darszon, Alberto; Darszon, A; Darszon; Nishigaki, Takuya; Nishigaki, T; Nishigaki; López-González, Ignacio; López-González, I; López-González	Cell Calcium
32702006	High mortality in an outbreak of multidrug resistant Acinetobacter baumannii infection introduced to an oncological hospital by a patient transferred from a general hospital.	To describe the clinical features, outcomes, and molecular epidemiology of an outbreak of multidrug resistant (MDR) A. baumannii.	2020	Cornejo-Juárez, Patricia; Cornejo-Juárez, P; Cornejo-Juárez; Cevallos, Miguel Angel; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Castro-Jaimes, Semiramis; Castro-Jaimes, S; Castro-Jaimes; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Velázquez-Acosta, Consuelo; Velázquez-Acosta, C; Velázquez-Acosta; Martínez-Oliva, David; Martínez-Oliva, D; Martínez-Oliva; Pérez-Oseguera, Angeles; Pérez-Oseguera, A; Pérez-Oseguera; Rivera-Buendía, Frida; Rivera-Buendía, F; Rivera-Buendía; Volkow-Fernández, Patricia; Volkow-Fernández, P; Volkow-Fernández	PLoS One
32611704	Phylogeographical Analyses and Antibiotic Resistance Genes of <i>Acinetobacter johnsonii</i> Highlight Its Clinical Relevance.	<i>Acinetobacter johnsonii</i> has been severely understudied and its population structure and the presence of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) are very much uncertain. Our phylogeographical analysis shows that intercontinental transmission has occurred frequently and that different lineages are circulating within single countries; notably, clinical and nonclinical strains are not well differentiated from one another. Importantly, in this species recombination is a significant source of single nucleotide polymorphisms. Furthermore, our results show this species could be an important reservoir of ARGs since it has a significant amount of ARGs, and many of them show signals of horizontal gene transfer. Thus, this study clearly points out the clinical importance of <i>A. johnsonii</i> and the urgent need to better appreciate its genomic diversity.	2020 07	Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Mateo-Estrada, Valeria; Mateo-Estrada, V; Mateo-Estrada; Gonzalez-Rocha, Gerardo; Gonzalez-Rocha, G; Gonzalez-Rocha; Opazo-Capurro, Andrés; Opazo-Capurro, A; Opazo-Capurro	mSphere
32665585	Redefining fundamental concepts of transcription initiation in bacteria.	Despite enormous progress in understanding the fundamentals of bacterial gene regulation, our knowledge remains limited when compared with the number of bacterial genomes and regulatory systems to be discovered. Derived from a small number of initial studies, classic definitions for concepts of gene regulation have evolved as the number of characterized promoters has increased. Together with discoveries made using new technologies, this knowledge has led to revised generalizations and principles. In this Expert Recommendation, we suggest precise, updated definitions that support a logical, consistent conceptual framework of bacterial gene regulation, focusing on transcription initiation. The resulting concepts can be formalized by ontologies for computational modelling, laying the foundation for improved bioinformatics tools, knowledge-based resources and scientific communication. Thus, this work will help researchers construct better predictive models, with different formalisms, that will be useful in engineering, synthetic biology, microbiology and genetics.	2020 11	Mejía-Almonte, Citlalli; Mejía-Almonte, C; Mejía-Almonte; Busby, Stephen J W; Busby, SJW; Busby; Wade, Joseph T; Wade, JT; Wade; van Helden, Jacques; van Helden, J; van Helden; Arkin, Adam P; Arkin, AP; Arkin; Stormo, Gary D; Stormo, GD; Stormo; Eilbeck, Karen; Eilbeck, K; Eilbeck; Palsson, Bernhard O; Palsson, BO; Palsson; Galagan, James E; Galagan, JE; Galagan; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nat Rev Genet
32284321	The Salmonella enterica Serovar Typhi <i>ltrR</i> Gene Encodes Two Proteins Whose Transcriptional Expression Is Upregulated by Alkaline pH and Repressed at Their Promoters and Coding Regions by H-NS and Lrp.	LtrR is a LysR-type regulator involved in the positive expression of <i>ompR</i> to promote <i>ompC</i> and <i>ompF</i> expression. This regulatory network is fundamental for the control of bacterial transformation and resistance to the bile salt sodium deoxycholate in <i>Salmonella enterica</i> serovar Typhi. In this work, the transcriptional regulation of <i>ltrR</i> was characterized, revealing that the use of alternative promoters results in two transcripts. The larger one, the <i>ltrR2</i> mRNA, was repressed at promoter and coding regions by H-NS, whereas Lrp repressed its expression at the coding region. In the case of the second and shorter <i>ltrR1</i> transcript, it was repressed only at the coding region by H-NS and Lrp. Remarkably, pH 7.5 is a positive signal involved in the transcriptional expression of both <i>ltrR</i> units. Translational fusions and Western blot experiments demonstrated that <i>ltrR2</i> and <i>ltrR1</i> mRNAs encode the LtrR2 and LtrR1 proteins. This study adds new data on the complex genetic and regulatory characteristics of one of the most predominant types of transcriptional factors in bacteria, the LysR-type transcriptional regulators.<b>IMPORTANCE</b> The LysR-type transcriptional regulators are present in viruses, archaea, bacteria, and eukaryotic cells. Furthermore, these proteins are the most abundant transcriptional factors in bacteria. Here, we demonstrate that two LysR-type proteins are generated from the <i>ltrR</i> gene. These proteins are genetically induced by pH and repressed at the promoter and coding regions by the global regulators H-NS and Lrp. Thus, novel basic aspects of the complex genetic regulation of the LysR-type transcriptional regulators are described.	2020 06	Rebollar-Flores, J E; Rebollar-Flores, JE; Rebollar-Flores; Medina-Aparicio, L; Medina-Aparicio, L; Medina-Aparicio; Osio-Becerro, V E; Osio-Becerro, VE; Osio-Becerro; Villarreal, J M; Villarreal, JM; Villarreal; Mayo, S; Mayo, S; Mayo; Mendoza, B D; Mendoza, BD; Mendoza; Rodríguez-Gutierrez, S; Rodríguez-Gutierrez, S; Rodríguez-Gutierrez; Olvera, L; Olvera, L; Olvera; Dávila, S; Dávila, S; Dávila; Encarnación, S; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Martínez-Batallar, A G; Martínez-Batallar, AG; Martínez-Batallar; Calva, E; Calva, E; Calva; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas	J Bacteriol
32625185	Structure and Evolution of <i>Acinetobacter baumannii</i> Plasmids.	<i>Acinetobacter baumannii</i> is an emergent bacterial pathogen that provokes many types of infections in hospitals around the world. The genome of this organism consists of a chromosome and plasmids. These plasmids vary over a wide size range and many of them have been linked to the acquisition of antibiotic-resistance genes. Our bioinformatic analyses indicate that <i>A. baumannii</i> plasmids belong to a small number of plasmid lineages. The general structure of these lineages seems to be very stable and consists not only of genes involved in plasmid maintenance functions but of gene sets encoding poorly characterized proteins, not obviously linked to survival in the hospital setting, and opening the possibility that they improve the parasitic properties of plasmids. An analysis of genes involved in replication, suggests that members of the same plasmid lineage are part of the same plasmid incompatibility group. The same analysis showed the necessity of classifying the Rep proteins in ten new groups, under the scheme proposed by Bertini et al. (2010). Also, we show that some plasmid lineages have the potential capacity to replicate in many bacterial genera including those embracing human pathogen species, while others seem to replicate only within the limits of the <i>Acinetobacter</i> genus. Moreover, some plasmid lineages are widely distributed along the <i>A. baumannii</i> phylogenetic tree. Despite this, a number of them lack genes involved in conjugation or mobilization functions. Interestingly, only 34.6% of the plasmids analyzed here possess antibiotic resistance genes and most of them belong to fourteen plasmid lineages of the twenty one described here. Gene flux between plasmid lineages appears primarily limited to transposable elements, which sometimes carry antibiotic resistance genes. In most plasmid lineages transposable elements and antibiotic resistance genes are secondary acquisitions. Finally, broad host-range plasmids appear to have played a crucial role.	2020	Salgado-Camargo, Abraham D; Salgado-Camargo, AD; Salgado-Camargo; Castro-Jaimes, Semiramis; Castro-Jaimes, S; Castro-Jaimes; Gutierrez-Rios, Rosa-Maria; Gutierrez-Rios, RM; Gutierrez-Rios; Lozano, Luis F; Lozano, LF; Lozano; Altamirano-Pacheco, Luis; Altamirano-Pacheco, L; Altamirano-Pacheco; Silva-Sanchez, Jesús; Silva-Sanchez, J; Silva-Sanchez; Pérez-Oseguera, Ángeles; Pérez-Oseguera, Á; Pérez-Oseguera; Volkow, Patricia; Volkow, P; Volkow; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	Front Microbiol
32510151	Genomic consequences of dietary diversification and parallel evolution due to nectarivory in leaf-nosed bats.	The New World leaf-nosed bats (Phyllostomids) exhibit a diverse spectrum of feeding habits and innovations in their nutrient acquisition and foraging mechanisms. However, the genomic signatures associated with their distinct diets are unknown.	2020 06	Gutiérrez-Guerrero, Yocelyn T; Gutiérrez-Guerrero, YT; Gutiérrez-Guerrero; Ibarra-Laclette, Enrique; Ibarra-Laclette, E; Ibarra-Laclette; Martínez Del Río, Carlos; Martínez Del Río, C; Martínez Del Río; Barrera-Redondo, Josué; Barrera-Redondo, J; Barrera-Redondo; Rebollar, Eria A; Rebollar, EA; Rebollar; Ortega, Jorge; Ortega, J; Ortega; León-Paniagua, Livia; León-Paniagua, L; León-Paniagua; Urrutia, Araxi; Urrutia, A; Urrutia; Aguirre-Planter, Erika; Aguirre-Planter, E; Aguirre-Planter; Eguiarte, Luis E; Eguiarte, LE; Eguiarte	Gigascience
32392469	Single-Cell Tracing Dissects Regulation of Maintenance and Inheritance of Transcriptional Reinduction Memory.	Transcriptional memory of gene expression enables adaptation to repeated stimuli across many organisms. However, the regulation and heritability of transcriptional memory in single cells and through divisions remains poorly understood. Here, we combined microfluidics with single-cell live imaging to monitor Saccharomyces cerevisiae galactokinase 1 (GAL1) expression over multiple generations. By applying pedigree analysis, we dissected and quantified the maintenance and inheritance of transcriptional reinduction memory in individual cells through multiple divisions. We systematically screened for loss- and gain-of-memory knockouts to identify memory regulators in thousands of single cells. We identified new loss-of-memory mutants, which affect memory inheritance into progeny. We also unveiled a gain-of-memory mutant, elp6Δ, and suggest that this new phenotype can be mediated through decreased histone occupancy at the GAL1 promoter. Our work uncovers principles of maintenance and inheritance of gene expression states and their regulators at the single-cell level.	2020 06	Bheda, Poonam; Bheda, P; Bheda; Aguilar-Gómez, Diana; Aguilar-Gómez, D; Aguilar-Gómez; Becker, Nils B; Becker, NB; Becker; Becker, Johannes; Becker, J; Becker; Stavrou, Emmanouil; Stavrou, E; Stavrou; Kukhtevich, Igor; Kukhtevich, I; Kukhtevich; Höfer, Thomas; Höfer, T; Höfer; Maerkl, Sebastian; Maerkl, S; Maerkl; Charvin, Gilles; Charvin, G; Charvin; Marr, Carsten; Marr, C; Marr; Kirmizis, Antonis; Kirmizis, A; Kirmizis; Schneider, Robert; Schneider, R; Schneider	Mol Cell
32560407	Characterization of Extremely Drug-Resistant and Hypervirulent <i>Acinetobacter baumannii</i> AB030.	<i>Acinetobacter baumannii</i> is an important nosocomial bacterial pathogen. Multidrug-resistant isolates of <i>A. baumannii</i> are reported worldwide. Some <i>A. baumannii</i> isolates display resistance to nearly all antibiotics, making treatment of infections very challenging. As the need for new and effective antibiotics against <i>A. baumannii</i> becomes increasingly urgent, there is a need to understand the mechanisms of antibiotic resistance and virulence in this organism. In this work, comparative genomics was used to understand the mechanisms of antibiotic resistance and virulence in AB030, an extremely drug-resistant and hypervirulent strain of <i>A. baumannii</i> that is a representative of a recently emerged lineage of <i>A. baumannii</i> International Clone V. In order to characterize AB030, we carried out a genomic and phenotypic comparison with LAC-4, a previously described hyper-resistant and hypervirulent isolate. AB030 contains a number of antibiotic resistance- and virulence-associated genes that are not present in LAC-4. A number of these genes are present on mobile elements. This work shows the importance of characterizing the members of new lineages of <i>A. baumannii</i> in order to determine the development of antibiotic resistance and virulence in this organism.	2020 Jun	Singh, Manu; Singh, M; Singh; De Silva, P Malaka; De Silva, PM; De Silva; Al-Saadi, Yasser; Al-Saadi, Y; Al-Saadi; Switala, Jacek; Switala, J; Switala; Loewen, Peter C; Loewen, PC; Loewen; Hausner, Georg; Hausner, G; Hausner; Chen, Wangxue; Chen, W; Chen; Hernandez, Ismael; Hernandez, I; Hernandez; Castillo-Ramirez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramirez, S; Castillo-Ramirez; Kumar, Ayush; Kumar, A; Kumar	Antibiotics (Basel)
32433751	Viviparous Reptile Regarded to Have Temperature-Dependent Sex Determination Has Old XY Chromosomes.	The water skinks Eulamprus tympanum and Eulamprus heatwolei show thermally induced sex determination where elevated temperatures give rise to male offspring. Paradoxically, Eulamprus species reproduce in temperatures of 12-15 °C making them outliers when compared with reptiles that use temperature as a cue for sex determination. Moreover, these two species are among the very few viviparous reptiles reported to have thermally induced sex determination. Thus, we tested whether these skinks possess undetected sex chromosomes with thermal override. We produced transcriptome and genome data for E. heatwolei. We found that E. heatwolei presents XY chromosomes that include 14 gametologs with regulatory functions. The Y chromosomal region is 79-116 Myr old and shared between water and spotted skinks. Our work provides clear evidence that climate could be useful to predict the type of sex determination systems in reptiles and it also indicates that viviparity is strictly associated with sex chromosomes.	2020 06	Cornejo-Páramo, Paola; Cornejo-Páramo, P; Cornejo-Páramo; Dissanayake, Duminda S B; Dissanayake, DSB; Dissanayake; Lira-Noriega, Andrés; Lira-Noriega, A; Lira-Noriega; Martínez-Pacheco, Mónica L; Martínez-Pacheco, ML; Martínez-Pacheco; Acosta, Armando; Acosta, A; Acosta; Ramírez-Suástegui, Ciro; Ramírez-Suástegui, C; Ramírez-Suástegui; Méndez-de-la-Cruz, Fausto R; Méndez-de-la-Cruz, FR; Méndez-de-la-Cruz; Székely, Tamás; Székely, T; Székely; Urrutia, Araxi O; Urrutia, AO; Urrutia; Georges, Arthur; Georges, A; Georges; Cortez, Diego; Cortez, D; Cortez	Genome Biol Evol
32456693	Correction to: Genome analysis of Salmonella enterica subsp. diarizonae isolates from invasive human infections reveals enrichment of virulence-related functions in lineage ST1256.	An amendment to this paper has been published and can be accessed via the original article.	2020 05	Giner-Lamia, Joaquín; Giner-Lamia, J; Giner-Lamia; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Betancor, Laura; Betancor, L; Betancor; Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva; Bisio, Julieta; Bisio, J; Bisio; Soleto, Lorena; Soleto, L; Soleto; Chabalgoity, José A; Chabalgoity, JA; Chabalgoity; Puente, José Luis; Puente, JL; Puente; Salmonella CYTED Network; García-Del Portillo, Francisco; García-Del Portillo, F; García-Del Portillo	BMC Genomics
32670207	Chromosome Architecture and Gene Content of the Emergent Pathogen <i>Acinetobacter haemolyticus</i>.	<i>Acinetobacter haemolyticus</i> is a Gammaproteobacterium that has been involved in serious diseases frequently linked to the nosocomial environment. Most of the strains causing such infections are sensitive to a wide variety of antibiotics, but recent reports indicate that this pathogen is acquiring very efficiently carbapenem-resistance determinants like the <i>bla</i>NDM-1 gene, all over the world. With this work we contribute with a collection set of 31 newly sequenced nosocomial <i>A. haemolyticus</i> isolates. Genome analysis of these sequences and others collected from RefSeq indicates that their chromosomes are organized in 12 syntenic blocks that contain most of the core genome genes. These blocks are separated by hypervariable regions that are rich in unique gene families, but also have signals of horizontal gene transfer. Genes involved in virulence or encoding different secretion systems are located inside syntenic regions and have recombination signals. The relative order of the synthetic blocks along the <i>A. haemolyticus</i> chromosome can change, indicating that they have been subject to several kinds of inversions. Genomes of this microorganism show large differences in gene content even if they are in the same clade. Here we also show that <i>A. haemolyticus</i> has an open pan-genome.	2020	Castro-Jaimes, Semiramis; Castro-Jaimes, S; Castro-Jaimes; Bello-López, Elena; Bello-López, E; Bello-López; Velázquez-Acosta, Consuelo; Velázquez-Acosta, C; Velázquez-Acosta; Volkow-Fernández, Patricia; Volkow-Fernández, P; Volkow-Fernández; Lozano-Zarain, Patricia; Lozano-Zarain, P; Lozano-Zarain; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Cevallos, Miguel Angel; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	Front Microbiol
32429835	Repetitive DNA profile of the amphibian mitogenome.	Repetitive DNA elements such as direct and inverted repeat sequences are present in every genome, playing numerous biological roles. In amphibians, the functions and effects of the repeat sequences have not been extensively explored. We consider that the data of mitochondrial genomes in the NCBI database are a valuable alternative to generate a better understanding of the molecular dynamic of the repeat sequences in the amphibians.	2020 May	Cabañas, Noel; Cabañas, N; Cabañas; Becerra, Arturo; Becerra, A; Becerra; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Govezensky, Tzipe; Govezensky, T; Govezensky; Espinosa-Aguirre, Jesús Javier; Espinosa-Aguirre, JJ; Espinosa-Aguirre; Camacho-Carranza, Rafael; Camacho-Carranza, R; Camacho-Carranza	BMC Bioinformatics
32385404	Expansin-like Exl1 from Pectobacterium is a virulence factor required for host infection, and induces a defence plant response involving ROS, and jasmonate, ethylene and salicylic acid signalling pathways in Arabidopsis thaliana.	Expansins are encoded by some phytopathogenic bacteria and evidence indicates that they act as virulence factors for host infection. Here we analysed the expression of exl1 by Pectobacterium brasiliense and Pectobacterium atrosepticum. In both, exl1 gene appears to be under quorum sensing control, and protein Exl1 can be observed in culture medium and during plant infection. Expression of exl1 correlates with pathogen virulence, where symptoms are reduced in a Δexl1 mutant strain of P. atrosepticum. As well as Δexl1 exhibiting less maceration of potato plants, fewer bacteria are observed at distance from the inoculation site. However, bacteria infiltrated into the plant tissue are as virulent as the wild type, suggesting that this is due to alterations in the initial invasion of the tissue. Additionally, swarming from colonies grown on MacConkey soft agar was delayed in the mutant in comparison to the wild type. We found that Exl1 acts on the plant tissue, probably by remodelling of a cell wall component or altering the barrier properties of the cell wall inducing a plant defence response, which results in the production of ROS and the induction of marker genes of the JA, ET and SA signalling pathways in Arabidopsis thaliana. Exl1 inactive mutants fail to trigger such responses. This defence response is protective against Pectobacterium brasiliense and Botrytis cinerea in more than one plant species.	2020 05	Narváez-Barragán, Delia A; Narváez-Barragán, DA; Narváez-Barragán; Tovar-Herrera, Omar E; Tovar-Herrera, OE; Tovar-Herrera; Torres, Martha; Torres, M; Torres; Rodríguez, Mabel; Rodríguez, M; Rodríguez; Humphris, Sonia; Humphris, S; Humphris; Toth, Ian K; Toth, IK; Toth; Segovia, Lorenzo; Segovia, L; Segovia; Serrano, Mario; Serrano, M; Serrano; Martínez-Anaya, Claudia; Martínez-Anaya, C; Martínez-Anaya	Sci Rep
32330481	Identification and Analysis of Natural Building Blocks for Evolution-Guided Fragment-Based Protein Design.	Natural evolution has generated an impressively diverse protein universe via duplication and recombination from a set of protein fragments that served as building blocks. The application of these concepts to the design of new proteins using subdomain-sized fragments from different folds has proven to be experimentally successful. To better understand how evolution has shaped our protein universe, we performed an all-against-all comparison of protein domains representing all naturally existing folds and identified conserved homologous protein fragments. Overall, we found more than 1000 protein fragments of various lengths among different folds through similarity network analysis. These fragments are present in very different protein environments and represent versatile building blocks for protein design. These data are available in our web server called F(old P)uzzle (fuzzle.uni-bayreuth.de), which allows to individually filter the dataset and create customized networks for folds of interest. We believe that our results serve as an invaluable resource for structural and evolutionary biologists and as raw material for the design of custom-made proteins.	2020 06	Ferruz, Noelia; Ferruz, N; Ferruz; Lobos, Francisco; Lobos, F; Lobos; Lemm, Dominik; Lemm, D; Lemm; Toledo-Patino, Saacnicteh; Toledo-Patino, S; Toledo-Patino; Farías-Rico, José Arcadio; Farías-Rico, JA; Farías-Rico; Schmidt, Steffen; Schmidt, S; Schmidt; Höcker, Birte; Höcker, B; Höcker	J Mol Biol
32225039	Role of <i>Sinorhizobium meliloti</i> and <i>Escherichia coli</i> Long-Chain Acyl-CoA Synthetase FadD in Long-Term Survival.	FadD is an acyl-coenzyme A (CoA) synthetase specific for long-chain fatty acids (LCFA). Strains mutated in fadD cannot produce acyl-CoA and thus cannot grow on exogenous LCFA as the sole carbon source. Mutants in the fadD (smc02162) of Sinorhizobium meliloti are unable to grow on oleate as the sole carbon source and present an increased surface motility and accumulation of free fatty acids at the entry of the stationary phase of growth. In this study, we found that constitutive expression of the closest FadD homologues of S. meliloti, encoded by sma0150 and smb20650, could not revert any of the mutant phenotypes. In contrast, the expression of Escherichia coli fadD could restore the same functions as S. meliloti fadD. Previously, we demonstrated that FadD is required for the degradation of endogenous fatty acids released from membrane lipids. Here, we show that absence of a functional fadD provokes a significant loss of viability in cultures of E. coli and of S. meliloti in the stationary phase, demonstrating a crucial role of fatty acid degradation in survival capacity.	2020 Mar	Pech-Canul, Ángel de la Cruz; Pech-Canul, ÁC; Pech-Canul; Rivera-Hernández, Geovanny; Rivera-Hernández, G; Rivera-Hernández; Nogales, Joaquina; Nogales, J; Nogales; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Soto, María J; Soto, MJ; Soto; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara	Microorganisms
31580950	Trade-offs between gene expression, growth and phenotypic diversity in microbial populations.	Bacterial cells have a limited number of resources that can be allocated for gene expression. The intracellular competition for these resources has an impact on the cell physiology. Bacteria have evolved mechanisms to optimize resource allocation in a variety of scenarios, showing a trade-off between the resources used to maximise growth (e.g. ribosome synthesis) and the rest of cellular functions. Limitations in gene expression also play a role in generating phenotypic diversity, which is advantageous in fluctuating environments, at the expenses of decreasing growth rates. Our current understanding of these trade-offs can be exploited for biotechnological applications benefiting from the selective manipulation of the allocation of resources.	2020 04	Kim, Juhyun; Kim, J; Kim; Darlington, Alexander; Darlington, A; Darlington; Salvador, Manuel; Salvador, M; Salvador; Utrilla, José; Utrilla, J; Utrilla; Jiménez, José I; Jiménez, JI; Jiménez	Curr Opin Biotechnol
31689478	Comparative genomics of a subset of Adherent/Invasive Escherichia coli strains isolated from individuals without inflammatory bowel disease.	There is increased evidence demonstrating the association between Crohn's Disease (CD), a type of Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD), and non-diarrheagenic Adherent/Invasive Escherichia coli (AIEC) isolates. AIEC strains are phenotypically characterized by their adhesion, invasion and intra-macrophage survival capabilities. In the present study, the genomes of five AIEC strains isolated from individuals without IBD (four from healthy donors and one from peritoneal liquid) were sequenced and compared with AIEC prototype strains (LF82 and NRG857c), and with extra-intestinal uropathogenic strain (UPEC CFT073). Non-IBD-AIEC strains showed an Average Nucleotide Identity up to 98% compared with control strains. Blast identities of the five non-IBD-AIEC strains were higher when compared to AIEC and UPEC reference strains than with another E. coli pathotypes, suggesting a relationship between them. The SNPs phylogeny grouped the five non-IBD-AIEC strains in one separated cluster, which indicates the emergence of these strains apart from the AIEC group. Additionally, four genomic islands not previously reported in AIEC strains were identified. An incomplete Type VI secretion system was found in non-IBD-AIEC strains; however, the Type II secretion system was complete. Several groups of genes reported in AIEC strains were searched in the five non-IBD-AIEC strains, and the presence of fimA, fliC, fuhD, chuA, irp2 and cvaC were confirmed. Other virulence factors were detected in non-IBD-AIEC strains, which were absent in AIEC reference strains, including EhaG, non-fimbrial adhesin 1, PapG, F17D-G, YehA/D, FeuC, IucD, CbtA, VgrG-1, Cnf1 and HlyE. Based on the differences in virulence determinants and SNPs, it is plausible to suggest that non-IBD AIEC strains belong to a different pathotype.	2020 03	Barrios-Villa, Edwin; Barrios-Villa, E; Barrios-Villa; Martínez de la Peña, Claudia Fabiola; Martínez de la Peña, CF; Martínez de la Peña; Lozano-Zaraín, Patricia; Lozano-Zaraín, P; Lozano-Zaraín; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Torres, Carmen; Torres, C; Torres; Torres, Alfredo G; Torres, AG; Torres; Rocha-Gracia, Rosa Del Carmen; Rocha-Gracia, RDC; Rocha-Gracia	Genomics
31935179	Polyamines produced by <i>Sinorhizobium meliloti</i> Rm8530 contribute to symbiotically relevant phenotypes <i>ex planta</i> and to nodulation efficiency on alfalfa.	In nitrogen-fixing rhizobia, emerging evidence shows significant roles for polyamines in growth and abiotic stress resistance. In this work we show that a polyamine-deficient ornithine decarboxylase null mutant (<i>odc2</i>) derived from <i>Sinorhizobium meliloti</i> Rm8530 had significant phenotypic differences from the wild-type, including greatly reduced production of exopolysaccharides (EPS; ostensibly both succinoglycan and galactoglucan), increased sensitivity to oxidative stress and decreased swimming motility. The introduction of the <i>odc2</i> gene borne on a plasmid into the <i>odc2</i> mutant restored wild-type phenotypes for EPS production, growth under oxidative stress and swimming. The production of calcofluor-binding EPS (succinoglycan) by the <i>odc2</i> mutant was also completely or mostly restored in the presence of exogenous spermidine (Spd), norspermidine (NSpd) or spermine (Spm). The <i>odc2</i> mutant formed about 25 % more biofilm than the wild-type, and its ability to form biofilm was significantly inhibited by exogenous Spd, NSpd or Spm. The <i>odc2</i> mutant formed a less efficient symbiosis with alfalfa, resulting in plants with significantly less biomass and height, more nodules but less nodule biomass, and 25 % less nitrogen-fixing activity. Exogenously supplied Put was not able to revert these phenotypes and caused a similar increase in plant height and dry weight in uninoculated plants and in those inoculated with the wild-type or <i>odc2</i> mutant. We discuss ways in which polyamines might affect the phenotypes of the <i>odc2</i> mutant.	2020 03	Becerra-Rivera, Victor A; Becerra-Rivera, VA; Becerra-Rivera; Arteaga, Alejandra; Arteaga, A; Arteaga; Leija, Alfonso; Leija, A; Leija; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn	Microbiology (Reading)
32176702	Reciprocal c-di-GMP signaling: Incomplete flagellum biogenesis triggers c-di-GMP signaling pathways that promote biofilm formation.	The assembly status of the V. cholerae flagellum regulates biofilm formation, suggesting that the bacterium senses a lack of movement to commit to a sessile lifestyle. Motility and biofilm formation are inversely regulated by the second messenger molecule cyclic dimeric guanosine monophosphate (c-di-GMP). Therefore, we sought to define the flagellum-associated c-di-GMP-mediated signaling pathways that regulate the transition from a motile to a sessile state. Here we report that elimination of the flagellum, via loss of the FlaA flagellin, results in a flagellum-dependent biofilm regulatory (FDBR) response, which elevates cellular c-di-GMP levels, increases biofilm gene expression, and enhances biofilm formation. The strength of the FDBR response is linked with status of the flagellar stator: it can be reversed by deletion of the T ring component MotX, and reduced by mutations altering either the Na+ binding ability of the stator or the Na+ motive force. Absence of the stator also results in reduction of mannose-sensitive hemagglutinin (MSHA) pilus levels on the cell surface, suggesting interconnectivity of signal transduction pathways involved in biofilm formation. Strains lacking flagellar rotor components similarly launched an FDBR response, however this was independent of the status of assembly of the flagellar stator. We found that the FDBR response requires at least three specific diguanylate cyclases that contribute to increased c-di-GMP levels, and propose that activation of biofilm formation during this response relies on c-di-GMP-dependent activation of positive regulators of biofilm production. Together our results dissect how flagellum assembly activates c-di-GMP signaling circuits, and how V. cholerae utilizes these signals to transition from a motile to a sessile state.	2020 03	Wu, Daniel C; Wu, DC; Wu; Zamorano-Sánchez, David; Zamorano-Sánchez, D; Zamorano-Sánchez; Pagliai, Fernando A; Pagliai, FA; Pagliai; Park, Jin Hwan; Park, JH; Park; Floyd, Kyle A; Floyd, KA; Floyd; Lee, Calvin K; Lee, CK; Lee; Kitts, Giordan; Kitts, G; Kitts; Rose, Christopher B; Rose, CB; Rose; Bilotta, Eric M; Bilotta, EM; Bilotta; Wong, Gerard C L; Wong, GCL; Wong; Yildiz, Fitnat H; Yildiz, FH; Yildiz	PLoS Genet
31949184	PulmonDB: a curated lung disease gene expression database.	Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) and Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF) have contrasting clinical and pathological characteristics and interesting whole-genome transcriptomic profiles. However, data from public repositories are difficult to reprocess and reanalyze. Here, we present PulmonDB, a web-based database (http://pulmondb.liigh.unam.mx/) and R library that facilitates exploration of gene expression profiles for these diseases by integrating transcriptomic data and curated annotation from different sources. We demonstrated the value of this resource by presenting the expression of already well-known genes of COPD and IPF across multiple experiments and the results of two differential expression analyses in which we successfully identified differences and similarities. With this first version of PulmonDB, we create a new hypothesis and compare the two diseases from a transcriptomics perspective.	2020 01	Villaseñor-Altamirano, Ana B; Villaseñor-Altamirano, AB; Villaseñor-Altamirano; Moretto, Marco; Moretto, M; Moretto; Maldonado, Mariel; Maldonado, M; Maldonado; Zayas-Del Moral, Alejandra; Zayas-Del Moral, A; Zayas-Del Moral; Munguía-Reyes, Adrián; Munguía-Reyes, A; Munguía-Reyes; Romero, Yair; Romero, Y; Romero; García-Sotelo, Jair S; García-Sotelo, JS; García-Sotelo; Aguilar, Luis A; Aguilar, LA; Aguilar; Aldana-Assad, Oscar; Aldana-Assad, O; Aldana-Assad; Engelen, Kristof; Engelen, K; Engelen; Selman, Moisés; Selman, M; Selman; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Balderas-Martínez, Yalbi I; Balderas-Martínez, YI; Balderas-Martínez; Medina-Rivera, Alejandra; Medina-Rivera, A; Medina-Rivera	Sci Rep
32112625	A novel way to synthesize pantothenate in bacteria involves β-alanine synthase present in uracil degradation pathway.	Pantothenate is an indispensable vitamin precursor of the synthesis of coenzyme A (CoA), a key metabolite required in over 100 metabolic reactions. β-Alanine (β-ala) is an indispensable component of pantothenate. Due to the metabolic relevance of this pathway, we assumed that orthologous genes for ß-alanine synthesis would be present in the genomes of bacteria, archaea, and eukaryotes. However, comparative genomic studies revealed that orthologous gene replacement and loss of synteny occur at high frequency in panD genes. We have previously reported the atypical plasmid-encoded location of the pantothenate pathway genes panC and panB (two copies) in R. etli CFN42. This study also revealed the unexpected absence of a panD gene encoding the aspartate decarboxylase enzyme (ADC), required for the synthesis of β-ala. The aim of this study was to identify the source of β-alanine in Rhizobium etli CFN42. In this study, we present a bioinformatic analysis and an experimental validation demonstrating that the source of β-ala in this R. etli comes from β-alanine synthase, the last enzyme of the uracil degradation pathway.	2020 04	López-Sámano, Mariana; López-Sámano, M; López-Sámano; Beltrán, Luis Fernando Lozano-Aguirre; Beltrán, LFL; Beltrán; Sánchez-Thomas, Rosina; Sánchez-Thomas, R; Sánchez-Thomas; Dávalos, Araceli; Dávalos, A; Dávalos; Villaseñor, Tomás; Villaseñor, T; Villaseñor; García-García, Jorge Donato; García-García, JD; García-García; García-de Los Santos, Alejandro; García-de Los Santos, A; García-de Los Santos	Microbiologyopen
32542109	Abasy Atlas v2.2: The most comprehensive and up-to-date inventory of meta-curated, historical, bacterial regulatory networks, their completeness and system-level characterization.	Some organism-specific databases about regulation in bacteria have become larger, accelerated by high-throughput methodologies, while others are no longer updated or accessible. Each database homogenize its datasets, giving rise to heterogeneity across databases. Such heterogeneity mainly encompasses different names for a gene and different network representations, generating duplicated interactions that could bias network analyses. Abasy (<b>A</b>cross-<b>ba</b>cteria <b>sy</b>stems) Atlas consolidates information from different sources into meta-curated regulatory networks in bacteria. The high-quality networks in Abasy Atlas enable cross-organisms analyses, such as benchmarking studies where gold standards are required. Nevertheless, network incompleteness still casts doubts on the conclusions of network analyses, and available sampling methods cannot reflect the curation process. To tackle this problem, the updated version of Abasy Atlas presented in this work provides historical snapshots of regulatory networks. Thus, network analyses can be performed at different completeness levels, making possible to identify potential bias and to predict future results. We leverage the recently found constraint in the complexity of regulatory networks to develop a novel model to quantify the total number of regulatory interactions as a function of the genome size. This completeness estimation is a valuable insight that may aid in the daunting task of network curation, prediction, and validation. The new version of Abasy Atlas provides 76 networks (204,282 regulatory interactions) covering 42 bacteria (64% Gram-positive and 36% Gram-negative) distributed in 9 species (<i>Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Bacillus subtilis, Escherichia coli, Corynebacterium glutamicum, Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Streptococcus pyogenes, Streptococcus pneumoniae</i>, and <i>Streptomyces coelicolor</i>), containing 8459 regulons and 4335 modules. <b>Database URL:</b> https://abasy.ccg.unam.mx/.	2020	Escorcia-Rodríguez, Juan M; Escorcia-Rodríguez, JM; Escorcia-Rodríguez; Tauch, Andreas; Tauch, A; Tauch; Freyre-González, Julio A; Freyre-González, JA; Freyre-González	Comput Struct Biotechnol J
32216867	Genetic regulation, biochemical properties and physiological importance of arginase from <i>Sinorhizobium meliloti</i>.	In bacteria, l-arginine is a precursor of various metabolites and can serve as a source of carbon and/or nitrogen. Arginine catabolism by arginase, which hydrolyzes arginine to l-ornithine and urea, is common in nature but has not been studied in symbiotic nitrogen-fixing rhizobia. The genome of the alfalfa microsymbiont <i>Sinorhizobium meliloti</i> 1021 has two genes annotated as arginases, <i>argI1</i> (<i>smc03091</i>) and <i>argI2</i> (<i>sma1711</i>). Biochemical assays with purified ArgI1 and ArgI2 (as 6His-Sumo-tagged proteins) showed that only ArgI1 had detectable arginase activity. A 1021 <i>argI1</i> null mutant lacked arginase activity and grew at a drastically reduced rate with arginine as sole nitrogen source. Wild-type growth and arginase activity were restored in the <i>argI1</i> mutant genetically complemented with a genomically integrated <i>argI1</i> gene. In the wild-type, arginase activity and <i>argI1</i> transcription were induced several fold by exogenous arginine. ArgI1 purified as a 6His-Sumo-tagged protein had its highest <i>in vitro</i> enzymatic activity at pH 7.5 with Ni<sup>2+</sup> as cofactor. The enzyme was also active with Mn<sup>2+</sup> and Co<sup>2+</sup>, both of which gave the enzyme the highest activities at a more alkaline pH. The 6His-Sumo-ArgI1 comprised three identical subunits based on the migration of the urea-dissociated protein in a native polyacrylamide gel. A Lrp-like regulator (<i>smc03092</i>) divergently transcribed from <i>argI1</i> was required for arginase induction by arginine or ornithine. This regulator was designated ArgIR. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays showed that purified ArgIR bound to the <i>argI1</i> promoter in a region preceding the predicted <i>argI1</i> transcriptional start. Our results indicate that ArgI1 is the sole arginase in <i>S. meliloti</i>, that it contributes substantially to arginine catabolism <i>in vivo</i> and that <i>argI1</i> induction by arginine is dependent on ArgIR.	2020 05	Ide, Alejandra Arteaga; Ide, AA; Ide; Hernández, Victor M; Hernández, VM; Hernández; Medina-Aparicio, Liliana; Medina-Aparicio, L; Medina-Aparicio; Carcamo-Noriega, Edson; Carcamo-Noriega, E; Carcamo-Noriega; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Hernández-Lucas, Ismael; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn	Microbiology (Reading)
31786251	In silico drug repurposing for the identification of potential candidate molecules against arboviruses infection.	Arboviral diseases caused by dengue (DENV), Zika (ZIKV) and chikungunya (CHIKV) viruses represent a major public health problem worldwide, especially in tropical areas where millions of infections occur every year. The aim of this research was to identify candidate molecules for the treatment of these diseases among the drugs currently available in the market, through in silico screening and subsequent in vitro evaluation with cell culture models of DENV and ZIKV infections. Numerous pharmaceutical compounds from antibiotics to chemotherapeutic agents presented high in silico binding affinity for the viral proteins, including ergotamine, antrafenine, natamycin, pranlukast, nilotinib, itraconazole, conivaptan and novobiocin. These five last compounds were tested in vitro, being pranlukast the one that exhibited the best antiviral activity. Further in vitro assays for this compound showed a significant inhibitory effect on DENV and ZIKV infection of human monocytic cells and human hepatocytes (Huh-7 cells) with potential abrogation of virus entry. Finally, intrinsic fluorescence analyses suggest that pranlukast may have some level of interaction with three viral proteins of DENV: envelope, capsid, and NS1. Due to its promising results, suitable accessibility in the market and reduced restrictions compared to other pharmaceuticals; the anti-asthmatic pranlukast is proposed as a drug candidate against DENV, ZIKV, and CHIKV, supporting further in vitro and in vivo assessment of the potential of this and other lead compounds that exhibited good affinity scores in silico as therapeutic agents or scaffolds for the development of new drugs against arboviral diseases.	2020 01	Montes-Grajales, Diana; Montes-Grajales, D; Montes-Grajales; Puerta-Guardo, Henry; Puerta-Guardo, H; Puerta-Guardo; Espinosa, Diego A; Espinosa, DA; Espinosa; Harris, Eva; Harris, E; Harris; Caicedo-Torres, William; Caicedo-Torres, W; Caicedo-Torres; Olivero-Verbel, Jesus; Olivero-Verbel, J; Olivero-Verbel; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Antiviral Res
32983629	Interdependency of regulatory effects of iron and riboflavin in the foodborne pathogen <i>Shigella flexneri</i> determined by integral transcriptomics.	<i>Shigella flexneri</i> is the causative agent of dysentery. For pathogens, iron is a critical micronutrient as its bioavailability is usually low in bacterial niches. This metal is involved in critical physiological processes mainly as a component of important metabolic molecules involved in redox reactions. Usually bacteria respond to fluctuations in iron availability to regulate iron acquisition and other iron-related functions. Recently the close metabolic feedback between iron and riboflavin, another pivotal biological redox agent, began to draw attention in bacteria. This is a widespread biological phenomenon, partly characterized by the coordination of regulatory responses to iron and riboflavin, probably owed to the involvement of these cofactors in common processes. Nonetheless, no systematic analyses to determine the extent of this regulatory effect have been performed in any species. Here, the transcriptomics responses to iron, riboflavin, iron in the presence of riboflavin and riboflavin in the presence of iron were assessed and compared in <i>S. flexneri</i>. The riboflavin regulon had a 43% overlap with the iron regulon. Notably, the presence of riboflavin highly increased the number of iron-responsive genes. Reciprocally, iron drastically changed the pool of riboflavin-responsive genes. Gene ontology (GO) functional terms enrichment analysis showed that biological processes were distinctively enriched for each subgroup of responsive genes. Among the biological processes regulated by iron and riboflavin were iron uptake, amino acids metabolism and electron transfer for ATP synthesis. Thus, iron and riboflavin highly affect the transcriptomics responses induced by each other in <i>S. flexneri</i>. GO terms analysis suggests that iron and riboflavin coordinately regulate specific physiological functions involving redox metabolism.	2020	Lozano Aguirre, Luis Fernando; Lozano Aguirre, LF; Lozano Aguirre; Salazar, Juan Carlos; Salazar, JC; Salazar; Vásquez, José Ignacio; Vásquez, JI; Vásquez; García-Angulo, Víctor Antonio; García-Angulo, VA; García-Angulo	PeerJ
33306798	Knowledge extraction for assisted curation of summaries of bacterial transcription factor properties.	Transcription factors (TFs) play a main role in transcriptional regulation of bacteria, as they regulate transcription of the genetic information encoded in DNA. Thus, the curation of the properties of these regulatory proteins is essential for a better understanding of transcriptional regulation. However, traditional manual curation of article collections to compile descriptions of TF properties takes significant time and effort due to the overwhelming amount of biomedical literature, which increases every day. The development of automatic approaches for knowledge extraction to assist curation is therefore critical. Here, we show an effective approach for knowledge extraction to assist curation of summaries describing bacterial TF properties based on an automatic text summarization strategy. We were able to recover automatically a median 77% of the knowledge contained in manual summaries describing properties of 177 TFs of Escherichia coli K-12 by processing 5961 scientific articles. For 71% of the TFs, our approach extracted new knowledge that can be used to expand manual descriptions. Furthermore, as we trained our predictive model with manual summaries of E. coli, we also generated summaries for 185 TFs of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium from 3498 articles. According to the manual curation of 10 of these Salmonella typhimurium summaries, 96% of their sentences contained relevant knowledge. Our results demonstrate the feasibility to assist manual curation to expand manual summaries with new knowledge automatically extracted and to create new summaries of bacteria for which these curation efforts do not exist. Database URL: The automatic summaries of the TFs of E. coli and Salmonella and the automatic summarizer are available in GitHub (https://github.com/laigen-unam/tf-properties-summarizer.git).	2020 12	Méndez-Cruz, Carlos-Francisco; Méndez-Cruz, CF; Méndez-Cruz; Blanchet, Antonio; Blanchet, A; Blanchet; Godínez, Alan; Godínez, A; Godínez; Arroyo-Fernández, Ignacio; Arroyo-Fernández, I; Arroyo-Fernández; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Martínez-Luna, Sara Berenice; Martínez-Luna, SB; Martínez-Luna; González-Colín, Cristian; González-Colín, C; González-Colín; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Database (Oxford)
32595407	Population genetics and diversity structure of an invasive earthworm in tropical and temperate pastures from Veracruz, Mexico.	<i>Pontoscolex corethrurus</i> (Müller, 1857) is an invasive tropical earthworm, globally distributed. It reproduces through parthenogenesis, which theoretically results in low genetic diversity. The analysis of the population structure of <i>P. corethrurus</i> using molecular markers may significantly contribute to understanding the ecology and reproductive system of this earthworm species. This work assessed the genetic diversity and population structure of <i>P. corethrurus</i> with 34 polymorphic inter simple sequence repeat markers, covering four populations in tropical and temperate pastures from Veracruz State. Nuclear markers distinguished two genetic clusters, probably corresponding to two distinct genetic lineages. The number of clones detected in the AC population was lower than expected for a parthenogenetic species. Also, the apparent lack of differences in population structures related to the geographic region among the populations studied may indicate that human-mediated transference is prevalent in these areas. Still, most individuals apparently belong to lineage A, and only a few individuals seem to belong to the lineage B. Thus, the admixture signatures found among the four populations of <i>P. corethrurus</i> may have facilitated a successful invasion by directly increasing fitness. In summary, addressing the genetic variation of <i>P. corethrurus</i> with ISSR markers was a suitable approach, as it evidenced the genetic diversity and relationships in the populations evaluated.	2020	Ortíz-Gamino, Diana; Ortíz-Gamino, D; Ortíz-Gamino; Gregorio, Josefat; Gregorio, J; Gregorio; Cunha, Luis; Cunha, L; Cunha; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Fragoso, Carlos; Fragoso, C; Fragoso; Ortíz-Ceballos, Ángel I; Ortíz-Ceballos, ÁI; Ortíz-Ceballos	Zookeys
31923208	Post-transcriptional regulation of Rad51c by miR-222 contributes cellular transformation.	DNA repair inhibition has been described as an essential event leading to the initiation of carcinogenesis. In a previous study, we observed that the exposure to metal mixture induces changes in the miR-nome of the cells that was correlated with the sub-expression of mRNA involved in processes and diseases associated with metal exposure. From this analysis, one of the miRNAs that shows changes in its expression is miR-222, which is overexpressed in various cancers associated with exposure to metals. In silico studies showed that a possible target for the microRNA-222 could be Rad 51c, a gene involved in the double-stranded DNA repair. We could appreciate that up-regulation of miR-222 reduces the expression both gene and as a protein expression of Rad51c by RT-PCR and immunoblot, respectively. A luciferase assay was performed to validate Rad51c as miR-222 target. Neutral comet assay was performed in order to evaluate DNA double-strand breaks under experimental conditions. Here, we demonstrate that miR-222 up-regulation, directly regulates Rad51c expression negatively, and impairs homologous recombination of double-strand break DNA repair during the initiation stage of cell transformation. This inhibition triggers morphological transformation in a two-stage Balb/c 3T3 cell assay, suggesting that this small RNA acts as an initiator of the carcinogenesis process.	2020	Rojas, Emilio; Rojas, E; Rojas; Martinez-Pacheco, Monica; Martinez-Pacheco, M; Martinez-Pacheco; Rodriguez-Sastre, Maria Alexandra; Rodriguez-Sastre, MA; Rodriguez-Sastre; Ramos-Espinosa, Paulina; Ramos-Espinosa, P; Ramos-Espinosa; Valverde, Mahara; Valverde, M; Valverde	PLoS One
31807886	Production of distinct labdane-type diterpenoids using a novel cryptic labdane-like cluster from Streptomyces thermocarboxydus K155.	Bioinformatic mining of the Streptomyces thermocarboxydus K155 genome predicted the presence of four synthases for the production of geosmin, hopene, albaflavenone, and a type B-type A diterpenoid system like that described for labdane-related diterpenoids (LRD). The lrd cluster was comprised by an operon of four genes (lrdABDC). This cluster seemed to be silent in the wild-type strain, as neither labdane nor terpene-like compounds were detected by UPLC-TOF-MS and GC-MS analyses in both culture supernatants and mycelial extracts. Heterologous expression of the lrdABDC cluster in a defective cyslabdan producer (Streptomyces cyslabdanicus K04-0144Δcld) generated 8,17-epoxy-7-hydroxy labda-12,14-diene and cyslabdan. The same cluster expressed in the strains Streptomyces coelicolor M1152, Streptomyces peucetius var. caesius, and Streptomyces avermitilis SUKA22 produced the general intermediary labda-8(17), 12(E),14-triene [(E)-biformene]. Besides (E)-biformene, S. coelicolor M1152 and S. avermitilis SUKA22 produced two and three different labdane-type diterpenoids, underlying the relevance of the genetic background of the Streptomyces host in product formation.	2020 Jan	Guzmán-Trampe, Silvia M; Guzmán-Trampe, SM; Guzmán-Trampe; Ikeda, Haruo; Ikeda, H; Ikeda; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Macías-Rubalcava, Martha L; Macías-Rubalcava, ML; Macías-Rubalcava; Esquivel, Baldomero; Esquivel, B; Esquivel; Centeno-Leija, Sara; Centeno-Leija, S; Centeno-Leija; Tapia-Cabrera, Silvana M; Tapia-Cabrera, SM; Tapia-Cabrera; Mora-Herrera, Silvia I; Mora-Herrera, SI; Mora-Herrera; Ruiz-Villafán, Beatriz; Ruiz-Villafán, B; Ruiz-Villafán; Rodríguez-Sanoja, Romina; Rodríguez-Sanoja, R; Rodríguez-Sanoja; Sanchez, Sergio; Sanchez, S; Sanchez	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol
32320380	Rejection of the name <i>Borreliella</i> and all proposed species comb. nov. placed therein.	Rejection (<i>nomen rejiciendum</i>) of the name <i>Borreliella</i> and all new combinations therein is being requested on grounds of risk to human health and patient safety (Principle 1, subprinciple 2 and Rule 56a) and violation to aim for stability of names, to avoid useless creation of names (Principle 1, subprinciple 1 and 3) and that names should not be changed without sufficient reason (Principle 9 of the International Code of Nomenclature of Prokaryotes).	2020 May	Margos, Gabriele; Margos, G; Margos; Castillo-Ramirez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramirez, S; Castillo-Ramirez; Cutler, Sally; Cutler, S; Cutler; Dessau, Ram B; Dessau, RB; Dessau; Eikeland, Randi; Eikeland, R; Eikeland; Estrada-Peña, Agustin; Estrada-Peña, A; Estrada-Peña; Gofton, Alexander; Gofton, A; Gofton; Graña-Miraglia, Lucía; Graña-Miraglia, L; Graña-Miraglia; Hunfeld, Klaus-Peter; Hunfeld, KP; Hunfeld; Krause, Andreas; Krause, A; Krause; Lienhard, Reto; Lienhard, R; Lienhard; Lindgren, Per-Eric; Lindgren, PE; Lindgren; Oskam, Charlotte; Oskam, C; Oskam; Rudolf, Ivo; Rudolf, I; Rudolf; Schwartz, Ira; Schwartz, I; Schwartz; Sing, Andreas; Sing, A; Sing; Stevenson, Brian; Stevenson, B; Stevenson; Wormser, Gary P; Wormser, GP; Wormser; Fingerle, Volker; Fingerle, V; Fingerle	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
32845909	Role of plant compounds in the modulation of the conjugative transfer of pRet42a.	One of the most studied mechanisms involved in bacterial evolution and diversification is conjugative transfer (CT) of plasmids. Plasmids able to transfer by CT often encode beneficial traits for bacterial survival under specific environmental conditions. Rhizobium etli CFN42 is a Gram-negative bacterium of agricultural relevance due to its symbiotic association with Phaseolus vulgaris through the formation of Nitrogen-fixing nodules. The genome of R. etli CFN42 consists of one chromosome and six large plasmids. Among these, pRet42a has been identified as a conjugative plasmid. The expression of the transfer genes is regulated by a quorum sensing (QS) system that includes a traI gene, which encodes an acyl-homoserine lactone (AHL) synthase and two transcriptional regulators (TraR and CinR). Recently, we have shown that pRet42a can perform CT on the root surface and inside nodules. The aim of this work was to determine the role of plant-related compounds in the CT of pRet42a. We found that bean root exudates or root and nodule extracts induce the CT of pRet42a in the plant rhizosphere. One possibility is that these compounds are used as nutrients, allowing the bacteria to increase their growth rate and reach the population density leading to the activation of the QS system in a shorter time. We tested if P. vulgaris compounds could substitute the bacterial AHL synthesized by TraI, to activate the conjugation machinery. The results showed that the transfer of pRet42a in the presence of the plant is dependent on the bacterial QS system, which cannot be substituted by plant compounds. Additionally, individual compounds of the plant exudates were evaluated; among these, some increased and others decreased the CT. With these results, we suggest that the plant could participate at different levels to modulate the CT, and that some compounds could be activating genes in the conjugation machinery.	2020	Bañuelos-Vazquez, Luis Alfredo; Bañuelos-Vazquez, LA; Bañuelos-Vazquez; Castellani, Lucas G; Castellani, LG; Castellani; Luchetti, Abril; Luchetti, A; Luchetti; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Torres Tejerizo, Gonzalo A; Torres Tejerizo, GA; Torres Tejerizo; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom	PLoS One
31796995	The Gut Microbiota Composition of the Moth Brithys crini Reflects Insect Metamorphosis.	Lepidoptera is a highly diverse insect order with major importance in agriculture as many species are considered pests. The role of the gut microbiota in insect physiology is still poorly understood, despite the research undertaken in recent years. Furthermore, Lepidoptera are holometabolous insects and few studies have addressed the influence of the changes taking place on the gut microbiome composition and diversity during metamorphosis, especially in monophagous species. The V3-V4 region of the 16S rRNA gene was sequenced to investigate the microbiota composition and diversity of the monophagous moth Brithys crini during three different life stages: egg, larvae (midgut and hindgut), and adult (gut). Our results showed that the microbiota composition of B. crini was stage specific, indicating that the developmental stage is a main factor affecting the gut microbiome in composition and potential functions. Moreover, the diversity of the gut microbiome reflected the developmental process, since a drop in diversity occurred between the larval and the adult phase, when the intestine is completely renewed. In spite of the changes in the gut microbiota during metamorphosis, 29 genera were conserved throughout the three developmental stages, mainly belonging to the Proteobacteria phylum, which define the core microbiome of B. crini. These genera seem to contribute to host physiology by participating in food digestion, nutrition, and detoxification mechanisms.	2020 May	González-Serrano, Francisco; González-Serrano, F; González-Serrano; Pérez-Cobas, Ana Elena; Pérez-Cobas, AE; Pérez-Cobas; Rosas, Tania; Rosas, T; Rosas; Baixeras, Joaquín; Baixeras, J; Baixeras; Latorre, Amparo; Latorre, A; Latorre; Moya, Andrés; Moya, A; Moya	Microb Ecol
30525300	Ethical issues in susceptibility genetic testing for late-onset neurodegenerative diseases.	Genome-wide association studies have revolutionized our understanding of the genetic architecture of complex traits and diseases over the last decade. This knowledge is enabling clinicians, researchers, and direct-to-consumer genetics companies to conduct disease susceptibility testing based on powerful methods such as polygenic risk scoring. However, these technologies raise a set of complex ethical, legal, social, and policy considerations. Here we review and discuss a series of ethical dilemmas associated with susceptibility genetic testing for the two most common late-onset neurodegenerative diseases, Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease, including testing in asymptomatic individuals. Among others, these include informed consent, disclosure of results and unexpected findings, mandatory screening, privacy and confidentiality, and stigma and genetic discrimination. Importantly, appropriate counseling is a deciding factor for the ethical soundness of genetic testing, which poses a challenge for the regulation of these tests and the training of healthcare professionals. As genetic knowledge about these diseases continues growing and genetic testing becomes more widespread, it is increasingly important to raise awareness among researchers, medical practitioners, genetic counselors, and decision makers about the ethical, legal, and social issues associated with genetic testing for polygenic diseases.	2019 12	Manrique de Lara, Amaranta; Manrique de Lara, A; Manrique de Lara; Soto-Gómez, Liliana; Soto-Gómez, L; Soto-Gómez; Núñez-Acosta, Elisa; Núñez-Acosta, E; Núñez-Acosta; Saruwatari-Zavala, Garbiñe; Saruwatari-Zavala, G; Saruwatari-Zavala; Rentería, Miguel E; Rentería, ME; Rentería	Am J Med Genet B Neuropsychiatr Genet
31401107	Microenvironment-regulated lncRNA-HAL is able to promote stemness in breast cancer cells.	Multicellular Tumor Spheroids culture (MCTS) is an in vitro model mimicking the characteristics of the tumor microenvironment, such as hypoxia and acidosis, resulting in the presence of both proliferating and quiescent cell populations. lncRNA's is a novel group of regulatory molecules that participates in the acquisition of tumorigenic phenotypes. In the present work we evaluated the oncogenic association of an uncharacterized lncRNA (lncRNA-HAL) in the tumorigenic phenotype induced by the MCTS microenvironment. We measured lncRNA-HAL expression level in MCF-7-MCTS populations and under different hypoxic conditions by RT-qPCR. Afterwards, we silenced lncRNA-HAL expression by shRNAs and evaluated its effect in MCF-7 transcriptome (by RNAseq) and validated the modified cellular processes by proliferation, migration, and stem cells assays. Finally, we analyzed which proteins interacts with lncRNA-HAL by ChIRP assay, to propose a possible molecular mechanism for this lncRNA. We found that lncRNA-HAL is overexpressed in the internal quiescent populations (p27 positive populations) of MCF-7-MCTS, mainly in the quiescent stem cell population, being hypoxia one of the microenvironmental cues responsible of its overexpression. Transcriptome analysis of lncRNA-HAL knockdown MCF7 cells revealed that lncRNA-HAL effect is associated with proliferation, migration and cell survival mechanisms; moreover, lncRNA-HAL silencing increased cell proliferation and impaired cancer stem cell proportion and function, resulting in decreased tumor grafting in vivo. In addition, we found that this lncRNA was overexpressed in triple-negative breast cancer patients. Analysis by ChIRP assay showed that this nuclear lncRNA binds to histones and hnRNPs suggesting a participation at the chromatin level and transcriptional regulation. The results obtained in the present work suggest that the function of lncRNA-HAL is associated with quiescent stem cell populations, which in turn is relevant due to its implications in cancer cell survival and resistance against treatment in vivo. Altogether, our data highlights a new lncRNA whose expression is regulated by the tumor microenvironment and associated to stemness in breast cancer.	2019 12	García-Venzor, Alfredo; García-Venzor, A; García-Venzor; Mandujano-Tinoco, Edna Ayerim; Mandujano-Tinoco, EA; Mandujano-Tinoco; Lizarraga, Floria; Lizarraga, F; Lizarraga; Zampedri, Cecilia; Zampedri, C; Zampedri; Krötzsch, Edgar; Krötzsch, E; Krötzsch; Salgado, Rosa María; Salgado, RM; Salgado; Dávila-Borja, Víctor Manuel; Dávila-Borja, VM; Dávila-Borja; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Melendez-Zajgla, Jorge; Melendez-Zajgla, J; Melendez-Zajgla; Maldonado, Vilma; Maldonado, V; Maldonado	Biochim Biophys Acta Mol Cell Res
31768302	Genomic diversity of prevalent <i>Staphylococcus epidermidis</i> multidrug-resistant strains isolated from a Children's Hospital in México City in an eight-years survey.	<i>Staphylococcus epidermidis</i> is a human commensal and pathogen worldwide distributed. In this work, we surveyed for multi-resistant <i>S. epidermidis</i> strains in eight years at a children's health-care unit in México City. Multidrug-resistant <i>S. epidermidis</i> were present in all years of the study, including resistance to methicillin, beta-lactams, fluoroquinolones, and macrolides. To understand the genetic basis of antibiotic resistance and its association with virulence and gene exchange, we sequenced the genomes of 17 <i>S. epidermidis</i> isolates. Whole-genome nucleotide identities between all the pairs of S. epidermidis strains were about 97% to 99%. We inferred a clonal structure and eight Multilocus Sequence Types (MLSTs) in the <i>S. epidermidis</i> sequenced collection. The profile of virulence includes genes involved in biofilm formation and phenol-soluble modulins (PSMs). Half of the <i>S. epidermidis</i> analyzed lacked the ica operon for biofilm formation. Likely, they are commensal <i>S. epidermidis</i> strains but multi-antibiotic resistant. Uneven distribution of insertion sequences, phages, and CRISPR-Cas immunity phage systems suggest frequent horizontal gene transfer. Rates of recombination between <i>S. epidermidis</i> strains were more prevalent than the mutation rate and affected the whole genome. Therefore, the multidrug resistance, independently of the pathogenic traits, might explain the persistence of specific highly adapted <i>S. epidermidis</i> clonal lineages in nosocomial settings.	2019	Cabrera-Contreras, Roberto; Cabrera-Contreras, R; Cabrera-Contreras; Santamaría, Rosa I; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; Meléndez-Herrada, Enrique; Meléndez-Herrada, E; Meléndez-Herrada; Morelos-Ramírez, Rubén; Morelos-Ramírez, R; Morelos-Ramírez; Barbosa-Amezcua, Martín; Barbosa-Amezcua, M; Barbosa-Amezcua; González-Covarrubias, Vanessa; González-Covarrubias, V; González-Covarrubias; Silva-Herzog, Eugenia; Silva-Herzog, E; Silva-Herzog; Soberón, Xavier; Soberón, X; Soberón; González, Víctor; González, V; González	PeerJ
31605487	Deciphering Ancestral Sex Chromosome Turnovers Based on Analysis of Male Mutation Bias.	The age of sex chromosomes is commonly obtained by comparing the substitution rates of XY gametologs. Coupled with phylogenetic reconstructions, one can refine the origin of a sex chromosome system relative to specific speciation events. However, these approaches are insufficient to determine the presence and duration of ancestral sex chromosome systems that were lost in some species. In this study, we worked with genomic and transcriptomic data from mammals and squamates and analyzed the effect of male mutation bias on X-linked sequences in these groups. We searched for signatures indicating whether monotremes shared the same sex chromosomes with placental mammals or whether pleurodonts and acrodonts had a common ancestral sex chromosome system. Our analyses indicate that platypus did not share the XY chromosomes with placental mammals, in agreement with previous work. In contrast, analyses of agamids showed that this lineage maintained the pleurodont XY chromosomes for several million years. We performed multiple simulations using different strengths of male mutation bias to confirm the results. Overall, our work shows that variations in substitution rates due to male mutation bias could be applied to uncover signatures of ancestral sex chromosome systems.	2019 11	Acosta, Armando; Acosta, A; Acosta; Martínez-Pacheco, Mónica L; Martínez-Pacheco, ML; Martínez-Pacheco; Díaz-Barba, Karina; Díaz-Barba, K; Díaz-Barba; Porras, Niccole; Porras, N; Porras; Gutiérrez-Mariscal, Mariana; Gutiérrez-Mariscal, M; Gutiérrez-Mariscal; Cortez, Diego; Cortez, D; Cortez	Genome Biol Evol
31689451	Plasmid pSfr64a and the symbiotic plasmid pSfr64b of Sinorhizobium fredii GR64 control each other's conjugative transfer through quorum-sensing elements.	Rhizobia are nitrogen-fixing symbionts of plants. Their genomes frequently contain large plasmids, some of which are able to perform conjugative transfer. Plasmid pSfr64a from Sinorhizobium fredii GR64 is a conjugative plasmid, whose transfer is regulated by quorum sensing genes encoded by itself (traR<sub>64a</sub>, traI<sub>64a</sub>), in the symbiotic plasmid pSfr64b (traR<sub>64b</sub>, traI<sub>64b</sub>), and in the chromosome (ngrI). Also, transfer of pSfr64b requires quorum sensing elements encoded in this plasmid (traR<sub>64b</sub>, traI<sub>64b</sub>), in pSfr64a (traR<sub>64a</sub>), and in the chromosome (ngrI). These results demonstrate that pSfr64a and the symbiotic plasmid depend on each other for conjugative transfer. Plasmid pSfr64a from S. fredii GR64 is unable to transfer from the genomic background of Rhizobium etli CFN42. Our results show that the relaxase of pRet42a is able to process the oriT of pSfr64a, and viceversa, underlining their functional similarity and suggesting that in addition to the external signals, the "cytoplasmic environment" may pose a barrier to plasmid dissemination, even if the plasmids are functional in other aspects.	2019 11	Cervantes, Laura; Cervantes, L; Cervantes; Miranda-Sánchez, Fabiola; Miranda-Sánchez, F; Miranda-Sánchez; Torres Tejerizo, Gonzalo; Torres Tejerizo, G; Torres Tejerizo; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom	Plasmid
31172251	Qualitative changes in proteins contained in outer membrane vesicles produced by Rhizobium etli grown in the presence of the nod gene inducer naringenin.	In this work, we compared the proteomic profiles of outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) isolated from Rhizobium etli CE3 grown in minimal medium (MM) with and without exogenous naringenin. One-hundred and seven proteins were present only in OMVs from naringenin-containing cultures (N-OMVs), 57 proteins were unique to OMVs from control cultures lacking naringenin (C-OMVs) and 303 proteins were present in OMVs from both culture conditions (S-OMVs). Although we found no absolute predominance of specific types of proteins in the N-, C- or S-OMV classes, there were categories of proteins that were significantly less or more common in the different OMV categories. Proteins for energy production, translation and membrane and cell wall biogenesis were overrepresented in C-OMVs relative to N-OMVs. Proteins for carbohydrate metabolism and transport and those classified as either general function prediction only, function unknown, or without functional prediction were more common in N-OMVs than C-OMVs. This indicates that naringenin increased the proportion of these proteins in the OMVs, although NodD binding sites were only slightly more common in the promoters of genes for proteins found in the N-OMVs. In addition, OMVs from naringenin-containing cultures contained nodulation factor.	2019 Nov	Taboada, Hermenegildo; Taboada, H; Taboada; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Meneses, Niurka; Meneses, N; Meneses; Vargas-Lagunas, Carmen; Vargas-Lagunas, C; Vargas-Lagunas; Buchs, Natasha; Buchs, N; Buchs; Andrade-Domínguez, Andrés; Andrade-Domínguez, A; Andrade-Domínguez; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación	Arch Microbiol
31626639	Population analysis of D6-like plasmid prophage variants associated with specific IncC plasmid types in the emerging Salmonella Typhimurium ST213 genotype.	The Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium sequence type 213 (ST213) emerged as a predominant genotype in Mexico. It is characterized by harboring multidrug resistance (MDR) IncC plasmids (previously IncA/C) and the lack of the Salmonella virulence plasmid (pSTV). Here we show that the D6-like plasmid prophage is present in most of the ST213 strains. We used the reported nucleotide sequence of YU39 plasmid (pYU39_89) to design a PCR typing scheme for the D6-like plasmid prophages, and determined the complete nucleotide sequences for the D6-like prophages of three additional ST213 strains (YU07-18, SL26 and SO21). Two prophage variants were described: i) a complete prophage, containing homologous sequences for most of the genetic modules described in P1 and D6 phages, which most likely allow for the lytic and lysogenic lifestyles; and ii) an incomplete prophage, lacking a 15 kb region containing morphogenesis genes, suggesting that it is defective. The tail fiber gene inversion region was the most divergent one between D6 and pYU39_89 genomes, suggesting the production of a distinct set of tail fibers, which could be involved in host range preferences. A glutaminyl-tRNA synthetase gene (glnS), which could be involved in providing host cell increased fitness or plasmid maintenance functions, was found in all D6-like genomes. Population level analysis revealed a biogeographic pattern of distribution of these plasmid-phages and specific associations with variants of MDR IncC plasmids. Statistically significant associations were found between the two prophage variants (p75 or p89), the type of IncC plasmids (I or II) and geographic isolation regions (Sonora, San Luis Potosí, Michoacán and Yucatán). This work integrates results from molecular typing, genomics and epidemiology to provide a broad overview for the evolution of an emergent Salmonella genotype.	2019	Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva; Calva, Edmundo; Calva, E; Calva; Fernández-Mora, Marcos; Fernández-Mora, M; Fernández-Mora; Puente, José L; Puente, JL; Puente; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa	PLoS One
31279965	Current phylogeny of Rhodospirillaceae: A multi-approach study.	Rhodospirillaceae represents a major family of the class alphaproteobacteria that includes an increasing number of functionally diverse taxa. The aim of this work is to evaluate the present phylogenetic diversity of the Rhodospirillaceae, which includes several metagenome-assembled genomes of uncultivated bacteria, as well as cultivated bacteria that were previously classified in different families. Various methodological approaches have been followed to discern the phylogenetic diversity of the taxa associated with the Rhodospirillaceae, which are grouped in three major sub-divisions and several other taxonomic entities that are currently confined to the genus rank. These genera include Tistrella, Elstera, Dongia and Ferrovibrio among cultivated organisms and alphaproteobacteria bacterium 41-28 among uncultivated bacteria. Overall, this study adds at least 11 genera and over 40 species to the current set of taxa belonging to the Rhodospirillaceae, a taxonomic term that clearly requires amendment. We propose to re-classify all taxa associated with the Rhodospirillaceae family under the new order, Diaforabacterales ord. nov. (from the Greek word for diversity, διάφορα). This study also uncovers the likely root of Rhodospirillaceae among recently reported metagenome-assembled genomes of uncultivated marine and groundwater bacteria.	2019 10	Degli Esposti, Mauro; Degli Esposti, M; Degli Esposti; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Mol Phylogenet Evol
31506045	Diffusion-driven enhancement of the antibiotic resistance selection window.	The current crisis of antimicrobial resistance in clinically relevant pathogens has highlighted our limited understanding of the ecological and evolutionary forces that drive drug resistance adaptation. For instance, although human tissues are highly heterogeneous, most of our mechanistic understanding about antibiotic resistance evolution is based on constant and well-mixed environmental conditions. A consequence of considering spatial heterogeneity is that, even if antibiotics are prescribed at high dosages, the penetration of drug molecules through tissues inevitably produces antibiotic gradients, exposing bacterial populations to a range of selective pressures and generating a dynamic fitness landscape that changes in space and time. In this paper, we will use a combination of mathematical modelling and computer simulations to study the population dynamics of susceptible and resistant strains competing for resources in a network of micro-environments with varying degrees of connectivity. Our main result is that highly connected environments increase diffusion of drug molecules, enabling resistant phenotypes to colonize a larger number of spatial locations. We validated this theoretical result by culturing fluorescently labelled <i>Escherichia coli</i> in 3D-printed devices that allow us to control the rate of diffusion of antibiotics between neighbouring compartments and quantify the spatio-temporal distribution of resistant and susceptible bacterial cells.	2019 09	Fuentes-Hernández, Ayari; Fuentes-Hernández, A; Fuentes-Hernández; Hernández-Koutoucheva, Anastasia; Hernández-Koutoucheva, A; Hernández-Koutoucheva; Muñoz, Alán F; Muñoz, AF; Muñoz; Domínguez Palestino, Raúl; Domínguez Palestino, R; Domínguez Palestino; Peña-Miller, Rafael; Peña-Miller, R; Peña-Miller	J R Soc Interface
31545121	High Phenotypic and Genotypic Diversity of <i>Enterococcus faecium</i> from Clinical and Commensal Isolates in Third Level Hospital.	<b><i>Background:</i></b> The use of antimicrobials and myeloablative chemotherapy regimens has promoted multiresistant microorganisms to emerge as nosocomial pathogens, such as vancomycin-resistant <i>Enterococcus faecium</i> (VREfm). We described a polyclonal outbreak of bloodstream infection caused by Efm in a hemato-oncological ward in Mexico. Our aim was to describe the clonal complex (CC) of the Efm strains isolated in the outbreak in comparison with commensal and environmental isolates. <b><i>Methodology:</i></b> Sixty Efm clinical, environmental, and commensal strains were included. We constructed a cladogram and a phylogenetic tree using Vitek and Multilocus sequence typing data, respectively. <b><i>Results:</i></b> We reported 20 new sequence types (ST), among which 17/43 clinical isolates belonged to CC17. The predominant ST in the clinical strains were ST757, ST1304, ST412, and ST770. Neither environmental nor commensal isolates belonged to CC17. The phylogeny of our collection shows that the majority of the clinical isolates were different from the environmental and commensal isolates, and only a small group of clinical isolates was closely related with environmental and commensal isolates. The cladogram revealed a similar segregation to that of the phylogeny. <b><i>Conclusions:</i></b> We found a high diversity among clinical, environmental, and commensal strains in a group of samples in a single hospital. Highest diversity was found between commensal and environmental isolates.	2020 Mar	Mayoral-Terán, Claudia; Mayoral-Terán, C; Mayoral-Terán; Flores-Moreno, Karen; Flores-Moreno, K; Flores-Moreno; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Volkow-Fernández, Patricia; Volkow-Fernández, P; Volkow-Fernández; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Graña-Miraglia, Lucia; Graña-Miraglia, L; Graña-Miraglia; López-Vidal, Yolanda; López-Vidal, Y; López-Vidal	Microb Drug Resist
31557287	Corytophanids Replaced the Pleurodont XY System with a New Pair of XY Chromosomes.	Almost all lizard families in the pleurodont clade share the same XY system. This system was meticulously studied in Anolis carolinensis, where it shows a highly degenerated Y chromosome and a male-specific X chromosome dosage compensation mechanism. Corytophanids (casque-headed lizards) have been proposed as the only family in the pleurodont clade to lack the XY system. In this study, we worked with extensive genomic and transcriptomic data from Basiliscus vittatus, a member of the Corytophanidae family that inhabits the tropical rainforests of Mexico. We confirmed that B. vittatus underwent a sex chromosome system turnover, which consisted in the loss of the pleurodont XY system and the gain of a new pair of XY chromosomes that are orthologous to chicken chromosome 17. We estimated the origin of the sex chromosome system to have occurred ∼63 Ma in the ancestor of corytophanids. Moreover, we identified 12 XY gametologues with particular attributes, such as functions related to the membrane and intracellular trafficking, very low expression levels, blood specificity, and incomplete dosage compensation in males.	2019 09	Acosta, Armando; Acosta, A; Acosta; Suárez-Varón, Gabriel; Suárez-Varón, G; Suárez-Varón; Rodríguez-Miranda, Luis A; Rodríguez-Miranda, LA; Rodríguez-Miranda; Lira-Noriega, Andrés; Lira-Noriega, A; Lira-Noriega; Aguilar-Gómez, Diana; Aguilar-Gómez, D; Aguilar-Gómez; Gutiérrez-Mariscal, Mariana; Gutiérrez-Mariscal, M; Gutiérrez-Mariscal; Hernández-Gallegos, Oswaldo; Hernández-Gallegos, O; Hernández-Gallegos; Méndez-de-la-Cruz, Fausto; Méndez-de-la-Cruz, F; Méndez-de-la-Cruz; Cortez, Diego; Cortez, D; Cortez	Genome Biol Evol
30984572	Phenotypic and genomic analysis of <i>Zymomonas mobilis</i> ZM4 mutants with enhanced ethanol tolerance.	<i>Zymomonas mobilis</i> ZM4 is an ethanol-producing microbe that is constitutively tolerant to this solvent. For a better understanding of the ethanol tolerance phenomenon we obtained and characterized two ZM4 mutants (ER79ap and ER79ag) with higher ethanol tolerance than the wild-type. Mutants were evaluated in different ethanol concentrations and this analysis showed that mutant ER79ap was more tolerant and had a better performance in terms of cell viability, than the wild-type strain and ER79ag mutant. Genotyping of the mutant strains showed that both carry non-synonymous mutations in <i>clpP</i> and <i>spoT/relA</i> genes. A third non-synonymous mutation was found only in strain ER79ap, in the <i>clpB</i> gene. Considering that ER79ap has the best tolerance to added ethanol, the mutant alleles of this strain were evaluated in ZM4 and here we show that while all of them contribute to ethanol tolerance, mutation within <i>spo</i>T/<i>rel</i>A gene seems to be the most important.	2019 Sep	Carreón-Rodríguez, Ofelia E; Carreón-Rodríguez, OE; Carreón-Rodríguez; Gutiérrez-Ríos, Rosa María; Gutiérrez-Ríos, RM; Gutiérrez-Ríos; Acosta, José L; Acosta, JL; Acosta; Martinez, Alfredo; Martinez, A; Martinez; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	Biotechnol Rep (Amst)
31406982	Phylogenomics Reveals Clear Cases of Misclassification and Genus-Wide Phylogenetic Markers for Acinetobacter.	The Gram-negative Acinetobacter genus has several species of clear medical relevance. Many fully sequenced genomes belonging to the genus have been published in recent years; however, there has not been a recent attempt to infer the evolutionary history of Acinetobacter with that vast amount of information. Here, through a phylogenomic approach, we established the most up-to-date view of the evolutionary relationships within this genus and highlighted several cases of poor classification, especially for the very closely related species within the Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-Acinetobacter baumannii complex (Acb complex). Furthermore, we determined appropriate phylogenetic markers for this genus and showed that concatenation of the top 13 gives a very decent reflection of the evolutionary relationships for the genus Acinetobacter. The intersection between our top markers and previously defined universal markers is very small. In general, our study shows that, although there seems to be hardly any universal markers, bespoke phylogenomic approaches can be used to infer the phylogeny of different bacterial genera. We expect that ad hoc phylogenomic approaches will be the standard in the years to come and will provide enough information to resolve intricate evolutionary relationships like those observed in the Acb complex.	2019 09	Mateo-Estrada, Valeria; Mateo-Estrada, V; Mateo-Estrada; Graña-Miraglia, Lucía; Graña-Miraglia, L; Graña-Miraglia; López-Leal, Gamaliel; López-Leal, G; López-Leal; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez	Genome Biol Evol
31598324	Tadpole body size and behaviour alter the social acquisition of a defensive bacterial symbiont.	Individual differences in host phenotypes can generate heterogeneity in the acquisition and transmission of microbes. Although this has become a prominent factor of disease epidemiology, host phenotypic variation might similarly underlie the transmission of microbial symbionts that defend against pathogen infection. Here, we test whether host body size and behaviour influence the social acquisition of a skin bacterium, <i>Janthinobacterium lividum</i>, which in some hosts can confer protection against infection by <i>Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis</i>, the causative agent of the amphibian skin disease chytridiomycosis. We measured body size and boldness (time spent in an open field) of green frog tadpoles and haphazardly constructed groups of six individuals. In some groups, we exposed one individual in each group to <i>J. lividum</i> and, in other groups, we inoculated a patch of aquarium pebbles to <i>J. lividum</i>. After 24 h, we swabbed each individual to estimate the presence of <i>J. lividum</i> on their skin. On average, tadpoles acquired nearly four times more bacteria when housed with an exposed individual compared to those housed with a patch of inoculated substrate. When tadpoles were housed with an exposed group-mate, larger and 'bolder' individuals acquired more bacteria. These data suggest that phenotypically biased acquisition of defensive symbionts might generate biased patterns of mortality from the pathogens against which they protect.	2019 Sep	Keiser, Carl N; Keiser, CN; Keiser; Wantman, Trina; Wantman, T; Wantman; Rebollar, Eria A; Rebollar, EA; Rebollar; Harris, Reid N; Harris, RN; Harris	R Soc Open Sci
31194874	Limits to a classic paradigm: most transcription factors in E. coli regulate genes involved in multiple biological processes.	Transcription factors (TFs) are important drivers of cellular decision-making. When bacteria encounter a change in the environment, TFs alter the expression of a defined set of genes in order to adequately respond. It is commonly assumed that genes regulated by the same TF are involved in the same biological process. Examples of this are methods that rely on coregulation to infer function of not-yet-annotated genes. We have previously shown that only 21% of TFs involved in metabolism regulate functionally homogeneous genes, based on the proximity of the gene products' catalyzed reactions in the metabolic network. Here, we provide more evidence to support the claim that a 1-TF/1-process relationship is not a general property. We show that the observed functional heterogeneity of regulons is not a result of the quality of the annotation of regulatory interactions, nor the absence of protein-metabolite interactions, and that it is also present when function is defined by Gene Ontology terms. Furthermore, the observed functional heterogeneity is different from the one expected by chance, supporting the notion that it is a biological property. To further explore the relationship between transcriptional regulation and metabolism, we analyzed five other types of regulatory groups and identified complex regulons (i.e. genes regulated by the same combination of TFs) as the most functionally homogeneous, and this is supported by coexpression data. Whether higher levels of related functions exist beyond metabolism and current functional annotations remains an open question.	2019 07	Ledezma-Tejeida, Daniela; Ledezma-Tejeida, D; Ledezma-Tejeida; Altamirano-Pacheco, Luis; Altamirano-Pacheco, L; Altamirano-Pacheco; Fajardo, Vicente; Fajardo, V; Fajardo; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
31346014	Complete Genome Sequence of Stenotrophomonas maltophilia Strain SVIA2, Isolated from Crude Oil-Contaminated Soil in Tabasco, Mexico.	<i>Stenotrophomonas maltophilia</i> strain SVIA2 was isolated from crude oil-contaminated soil from Tabasco, Mexico, and displayed a good potential for the degradation of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), using naphthalene, anthracene, phenanthridine, or biphenyl as the unique source of carbon. The SVIA2 genome contains essential genes involved in the degradation of PAHs.	2019 Jul	Elufisan, Temidayo Oluyomi; Elufisan, TO; Elufisan; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Rodríguez-Luna, Isabel Cristina; Rodríguez-Luna, IC; Rodríguez-Luna; Sánchez-Varela, Alejandro; Sánchez-Varela, A; Sánchez-Varela; Oyedara, Omotayo Opemipo; Oyedara, OO; Oyedara; Villalobos-López, Miguel Ángel; Villalobos-López, MÁ; Villalobos-López; Guo, Xianwu; Guo, X; Guo	Microbiol Resour Announc
31337792	Molecular epidemiology of Klebsiella variicola obtained from different sources.	Klebsiella variicola is considered an emerging pathogen in humans and has been described in different environments. K. variicola belongs to Klebsiella pneumoniae complex, which has expanded the taxonomic classification and hindered epidemiological and evolutionary studies. The present work describes the molecular epidemiology of K. variicola based on MultiLocus Sequence Typing (MLST) developed for this purpose. In total, 226 genomes obtained from public data bases and 28 isolates were evaluated, which were mainly obtained from humans, followed by plants, various animals, the environment and insects. A total 166 distinct sequence types (STs) were identified, with 39 STs comprising at least two isolates. The molecular epidemiology of K. variicola showed a global distribution for some STs was observed, and in some cases, isolates obtained from different sources belong to the same ST. Several examples of isolates corresponding to kingdom-crossing bacteria from plants to humans were identified, establishing this as a possible route of transmission. goeBURST analysis identified Clonal Complex 1 (CC1) as the clone with the greatest distribution. Whole-genome sequencing of K. variicola isolates revealed extended-spectrum β-lactamase- and carbapenemase-producing strains with an increase in pathogenicity. MLST of K. variicola is a strong molecular epidemiological tool that allows following the evolution of this bacterial species obtained from different environments.	2019 07	Barrios-Camacho, Humberto; Barrios-Camacho, H; Barrios-Camacho; Aguilar-Vera, Alejandro; Aguilar-Vera, A; Aguilar-Vera; Beltran-Rojel, Marilu; Beltran-Rojel, M; Beltran-Rojel; Aguilar-Vera, Edgar; Aguilar-Vera, E; Aguilar-Vera; Duran-Bedolla, Josefina; Duran-Bedolla, J; Duran-Bedolla; Rodriguez-Medina, Nadia; Rodriguez-Medina, N; Rodriguez-Medina; Lozano-Aguirre, Luis; Lozano-Aguirre, L; Lozano-Aguirre; Perez-Carrascal, Olga Maria; Perez-Carrascal, OM; Perez-Carrascal; Rojas, Jesús; Rojas, J; Rojas; Garza-Ramos, Ulises; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos	Sci Rep
30905871	Expression, purification, and characterization of a metagenomic thioesterase from activated sludge involved in the degradation of acylCoA-derivatives.	Metagenomic libraries are a novel and powerful approach to seek for pathways involved in xenobiotic degradation, since this technique abolishes the need for cultivating microorganisms that otherwise would be overlooked if they cannot grow on standard laboratory media and conditions. In this paper, we describe the expression, purification and characterization of a novel metagenomic thioesterase which was described to be involved in phenylacetic acid degradation (A. Sánchez-Reyes, R. Batista-García, G. Valdés-García E. Ortiz, L. Perezgasga, A. Zárate-Romero, N. Pastor, J. L. Folch-Mallol, A Family 13 thioesterase isolated from an activated sludge metagenome: insights into aromatic compounds metabolism, Proteins 85 (2017) 1222-1237). According to similarity and phylogenetic analyses, the enzyme seems to belong to an Actinobacterium. Nevertheless, after a process of denaturation and refolding, the protein expressed in E. coli was obtained in an active form. New data concerning the substrate preferences for this enzyme are presented which suggest that this thioesterase could be involved in breaking the ester bond in the CoA-linear acyl derivatives of the phenylacetic acetic pathway.	2019 07	Folch-Mallol, Jorge Luis; Folch-Mallol, JL; Folch-Mallol; Zárate, Andrés; Zárate, A; Zárate; Sánchez-Reyes, Ayixón; Sánchez-Reyes, A; Sánchez-Reyes; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara	Protein Expr Purif
30867545	Integrating the role of antifungal bacteria into skin symbiotic communities of three Neotropical frog species.	Chytridiomycosis, caused by the pathogen Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd), has led to population declines and extinctions of frog species around the world. While it is known that symbiotic skin bacteria can play a protective role against pathogens, it is not known how these defensive bacteria are integrated into the bacterial community on amphibian skin. In this study, we used 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing, culturing and Bd inhibition bioassays to characterize the communities of skin bacteria on three Neotropical frog species that persist in a Bd-infected area in Panama and determined the abundance and integration of anti-Bd bacteria into the community. We found that the two treefrog species had a similar bacterial community structure, which differed from the more diverse community found on the terrestrial frog. Co-occurrence networks also revealed differences between frog species such that the treefrogs had a significantly higher number of culturable Bd-inhibitory OTUs with high centrality scores compared with the terrestrial frog. We found that culture-dependent OTUs captured between 21 and 39% of the total relative abundance revealed in culture-independent communities. Our results suggest different ecological strategies occurring within skin antifungal communities on host species that have not succumbed to Bd infections in the wild.	2019 07	Rebollar, Eria A; Rebollar, EA; Rebollar; Bridges, Tiffany; Bridges, T; Bridges; Hughey, Myra C; Hughey, MC; Hughey; Medina, Daniel; Medina, D; Medina; Belden, Lisa K; Belden, LK; Belden; Harris, Reid N; Harris, RN; Harris	ISME J
31176475	Metatranscriptomics and nitrogen fixation from the rhizoplane of maize plantlets inoculated with a group of PGPRs.	Plant roots are inhabited by a large diversity of microbes, some of which are beneficial for the growth of plants and known as plant growth promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR). In this work, we designed a multispecies inoculum of PGPRs containing Rhizobium phaseoli, Sinorhizobium americanum and Azospirillum brasilense nitrogen-fixing strains and other plant-growth promoting bacteria such as Bacillus amyloliquefaciens and Methylobacterium extorquens. We evaluated the effect of this group of bacteria on the growth of one-month-old maize plants. The multispecies inoculum exerted a beneficial effect on maize plants that was greater than that obtained with single-bacteria. Using the same multispecies inoculant, acetylene reduction was recorded in 5-day-old roots indicating active nitrogen fixation by bacteria in maize. Azospirillum nitrogen fixation was lower than that obtained with the multispecies inoculum. We focused on the analysis of R. phaseoli gene expression in presence of other PGPRs. Many R. phaseoli up- regulated genes in roots in the presence of other bacteria are hypothetical, showing our poor knowledge of bacteria-bacteria interactions. Other genes indicated bacterial nutrient competition and R. phaseoli stress. Differentially expressed transcriptional regulators were identified that may be key in bacteria-bacteria interaction regulation. Additionally, gene expression was analyzed from Azospirillum but not from sinorhizobia and methylobacteria due to the low number of transcripts obtained from maize roots. The metatranscriptomic analysis from maize roots showed expression of Azospirillum nif genes in the presence of PGPR bacteria. Our hypothesis is that other bacteria stimulate Azospirillum capacity to fix nitrogen and this should be further explored.	2019 Jul	Gómez-Godínez, Lorena Jacqueline; Gómez-Godínez, LJ; Gómez-Godínez; Fernandez-Valverde, Selene Lizbeth; Fernandez-Valverde, SL; Fernandez-Valverde; Martinez Romero, Julio Cesar; Martinez Romero, JC; Martinez Romero; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
31140963	Minimal standards for the description of new genera and species of rhizobia and agrobacteria.	Herein the members of the Subcommittee on Taxonomy of Rhizobia and Agrobacteria of the International Committee on Systematics of Prokaryotes review recent developments in rhizobial and agrobacterial taxonomy and propose updated minimal standards for the description of new species (and genera) in these groups. The essential requirements (minimal standards) for description of a new species are (1) a genome sequence of at least the proposed type strain and (2) evidence for differentiation from other species based on genome sequence comparisons. It is also recommended that (3) genetic variation within the species is documented with sequence data from several clearly different strains and (4) phenotypic features are described, and their variation documented with data from a relevant set of representative strains. Furthermore, it is encouraged that information is provided on (5) nodulation or pathogenicity phenotypes, as appropriate, with relevant gene sequences. These guidelines supplement the current rules of general bacterial taxonomy, which require (6) a name that conforms to the International Code of Nomenclature of Prokaryotes, (7) validation of the name by publication either directly in the International Journal of Systematic and Evolutionary Microbiology or in a validation list when published elsewhere, and (8) deposition of the type strain in two international culture collections in separate countries.	2019 Jul	de Lajudie, Philippe M; de Lajudie, PM; de Lajudie; Andrews, Mitchell; Andrews, M; Andrews; Ardley, Julie; Ardley, J; Ardley; Eardly, Bertrand; Eardly, B; Eardly; Jumas-Bilak, Estelle; Jumas-Bilak, E; Jumas-Bilak; Kuzmanović, Nemanja; Kuzmanović, N; Kuzmanović; Lassalle, Florent; Lassalle, F; Lassalle; Lindström, Kristina; Lindström, K; Lindström; Mhamdi, Ridha; Mhamdi, R; Mhamdi; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Moulin, Lionel; Moulin, L; Moulin; Mousavi, Seyed Abdollah; Mousavi, SA; Mousavi; Nesme, Xavier; Nesme, X; Nesme; Peix, Alvaro; Peix, A; Peix; Puławska, Joanna; Puławska, J; Puławska; Steenkamp, Emma; Steenkamp, E; Steenkamp; Stępkowski, Tomasz; Stępkowski, T; Stępkowski; Tian, Chang-Fu; Tian, CF; Tian; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Wei, Gehong; Wei, G; Wei; Willems, Anne; Willems, A; Willems; Zilli, Jerri; Zilli, J; Zilli; Young, Peter; Young, P; Young	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
31335270	Resistome and a Novel <i>bla</i><sub>NDM-1</sub>-Harboring Plasmid of an <i>Acinetobacter haemolyticus</i> Strain from a Children's Hospital in Puebla, Mexico.	<i>Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii</i> complex isolates have been frequently associated with hospital and community infections, with <i>A. baumannii</i> being the most common. Other <i>Acinetobacter</i> spp. not belonging to this complex also cause infections in hospital settings, and the incidence has increased over the past few years. Some species of the <i>Acinetobacter</i> genus possess a great diversity of antibiotic resistance mechanisms, such as efflux pumps, porins, and resistance genes that can be acquired and disseminated by mobilizable genetic elements. By means of whole-genome sequencing, we describe in the clinical <i>Acinetobacter haemolyticus</i> strain AN54 different mechanisms of resistance that involve <i>bla</i><sub>OXA-265</sub>, <i>bla</i><sub>NDM-1</sub>, <i>aphA6</i>, <i>aac(6')-Ig</i>, and a resistance-nodulation-cell division-type efflux pump. This strain carries six plasmids, of which the plasmid pAhaeAN54e contains <i>bla</i><sub>NDM-1</sub> in a Tn125-like transposon that is truncated at the 3' end. This strain also has an insertion sequence IS<i>91</i> and seven genes encoding hypothetical proteins. The pAhaeAN54e plasmid is nontypable and different from other plasmids carrying <i>bla</i><sub>NDM-1</sub> that have been reported in Mexico and other countries. The presence of these kinds of plasmids in an opportunistic pathogen such as <i>A. haemolyticus</i> highlights the role that these plasmids play in the dissemination of antibiotic resistance genes, especially against carbapenems, in Mexican hospitals.	2019 Sep	Bello-López, Elena; Bello-López, E; Bello-López; Castro-Jaimes, Semiramis; Castro-Jaimes, S; Castro-Jaimes; Cevallos, Miguel Ángel; Cevallos, MÁ; Cevallos; Rocha-Gracia, Rosa Del Carmen; Rocha-Gracia, RDC; Rocha-Gracia; Castañeda-Lucio, Miguel; Castañeda-Lucio, M; Castañeda-Lucio; Sáenz, Yolanda; Sáenz, Y; Sáenz; Torres, Carmen; Torres, C; Torres; Gutiérrez-Cazares, Zita; Gutiérrez-Cazares, Z; Gutiérrez-Cazares; Martínez-Laguna, Ygnacio; Martínez-Laguna, Y; Martínez-Laguna; Lozano-Zarain, Patricia; Lozano-Zarain, P; Lozano-Zarain	Microb Drug Resist
30981884	The structure of (E)-biformene synthase provides insights into the biosynthesis of bacterial bicyclic labdane-related diterpenoids.	The labdane-related diterpenoids (LRDs) are a large group of natural products with a broad range of biological activities. They are synthesized through two consecutive reactions catalyzed by class II and I diterpene synthases (DTSs). The structural complexity of LRDs mainly depends on the catalytic activity of class I DTSs, which catalyze the formation of bicyclic to pentacyclic LRDs, using as a substrate the catalytic product of class II DTSs. To date, the structural and mechanistic details for the biosynthesis of bicyclic LRDs skeletons catalyzed by class I DTSs remain unclear. This work presents the first X-ray crystal structure of an (E)-biformene synthase, LrdC, from the soil bacterium Streptomyces sp. strain K155. LrdC was identified as a part of an LRD cluster of five genes and was found to be a class I DTS that catalyzes the Mg<sup>2+</sup>-dependent synthesis of bicyclic LRD (E)-biformene by the dephosphorylation and rearrangement of normal copalyl pyrophosphate (CPP). Structural analysis of LrdC coupled with docking studies suggests that Phe189 prevents cyclization beyond the bicyclic LRD product through a strong stabilization of the allylic carbocation intermediate, while Tyr317 functions as a general base catalyst to deprotonate the CPP substrate. Structural comparisons of LrdC with homology models of bacterial bicyclic LRD-forming enzymes (CldD, RmnD and SclSS), as well as with the crystallographic structure of bacterial tetracyclic LRD ent-kaurene synthase (BjKS), provide further structural insights into the biosynthesis of bacterial LRD natural products.	2019 07	Centeno-Leija, Sara; Centeno-Leija, S; Centeno-Leija; Tapia-Cabrera, Silvana; Tapia-Cabrera, S; Tapia-Cabrera; Guzmán-Trampe, Silvia; Guzmán-Trampe, S; Guzmán-Trampe; Esquivel, Baldomero; Esquivel, B; Esquivel; Esturau-Escofet, Nuria; Esturau-Escofet, N; Esturau-Escofet; Tierrafría, Víctor H; Tierrafría, VH; Tierrafría; Rodríguez-Sanoja, Romina; Rodríguez-Sanoja, R; Rodríguez-Sanoja; Zárate-Romero, Andrés; Zárate-Romero, A; Zárate-Romero; Stojanoff, Vivian; Stojanoff, V; Stojanoff; Rudiño-Piñera, Enrique; Rudiño-Piñera, E; Rudiño-Piñera; Sánchez, Sergio; Sánchez, S; Sánchez; Serrano-Posada, Hugo; Serrano-Posada, H; Serrano-Posada	J Struct Biol
31275740	Skin bacterial communities of neotropical treefrogs vary with local environmental conditions at the time of sampling.	The amphibian skin microbiome has been the focus of recent studies aiming to better understand the role of these microbial symbionts in host defense against disease. However, host-associated microbial communities are complex and dynamic, and changes in their composition and structure can influence their function. Understanding temporal variation of bacterial communities on amphibian skin is critical for establishing baselines from which to improve the development of mitigation techniques based on probiotic therapy and provides long-term host protection in a changing environment. Here, we investigated whether microbial communities on amphibian skin change over time at a single site. To examine this, we collected skin swabs from two pond-breeding species of treefrogs, <i>Agalychnis callidryas</i> and <i>Dendropsophus ebraccatus,</i> over 4 years at a single lowland tropical pond in Panamá. Relative abundance of operational taxonomic units (OTUs) based on 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing was used to determine bacterial community diversity on the skin of both treefrog species. We found significant variation in bacterial community structure across long and short-term time scales. Skin bacterial communities differed across years on both species and between seasons and sampling days only in <i>D. ebraccatus</i>. Importantly, bacterial community structures across days were as variable as year level comparisons. The differences in bacterial community were driven primarily by differences in relative abundance of key OTUs and explained by rainfall at the time of sampling. These findings suggest that skin-associated microbiomes are highly variable across time, and that for tropical lowland sites, rainfall is a good predictor of variability. However, more research is necessary to elucidate the significance of temporal variation in bacterial skin communities and their maintenance for amphibian conservation efforts.	2019	Estrada, Angie; Estrada, A; Estrada; Hughey, Myra C; Hughey, MC; Hughey; Medina, Daniel; Medina, D; Medina; Rebollar, Eria A; Rebollar, EA; Rebollar; Walke, Jenifer B; Walke, JB; Walke; Harris, Reid N; Harris, RN; Harris; Belden, Lisa K; Belden, LK; Belden	PeerJ
31222094	Effect of heritable symbionts on maternally-derived embryo transcripts.	Maternally-transmitted endosymbiotic bacteria are ubiquitous in insects. Among other influential phenotypes, many heritable symbionts of arthropods are notorious for manipulating host reproduction through one of four reproductive syndromes, which are generally exerted during early developmental stages of the host: male feminization; parthenogenesis induction; male killing; and cytoplasmic incompatibility (CI). Major advances have been achieved in understanding mechanisms and identifying symbiont factors involved in reproductive manipulation, particularly male killing and cytoplasmic incompatibility. Nonetheless, whether cytoplasmically-transmitted bacteria influence the maternally-loaded components of the egg or early embryo has not been examined. In the present study, we investigated whether heritable endosymbionts that cause different reproductive phenotypes in Drosophila melanogaster influence the mRNA transcriptome of early embryos. We used mRNA-seq to evaluate differential expression in Drosophila embryos lacking endosymbionts (control) to those harbouring the male-killing Spiroplasma poulsonii strain MSRO-Br, the CI-inducing Wolbachia strain wMel, or Spiroplasma poulsonii strain Hyd1; a strain that lacks a reproductive phenotype and is naturally associated with Drosophila hydei. We found no consistent evidence of influence of symbiont on mRNA composition of early embryos, suggesting that the reproductive manipulation mechanism does not involve alteration of maternally-loaded transcripts. In addition, we capitalized on several available mRNA-seq datasets derived from Spiroplasma-infected Drosophila melanogaster embryos, to search for signals of depurination of rRNA, consistent with the activity of Ribosome Inactivating Proteins (RIPs) encoded by Spiroplasma poulsonii. We found small but statistically significant signals of depurination of Drosophila rRNA in the Spiroplasma treatments (both strains), but not in the symbiont-free control or Wolbachia treatment, consistent with the action of RIPs. The depurination signal was slightly stronger in the treatment with the male-killing strain. This result supports a recent report that RIP-induced damage contributes to male embryo death.	2019 06	Mateos, Mariana; Mateos, M; Mateos; Silva, Nadisha O; Silva, NO; Silva; Ramirez, Paulino; Ramirez, P; Ramirez; Higareda-Alvear, Victor M; Higareda-Alvear, VM; Higareda-Alvear; Aramayo, Rodolfo; Aramayo, R; Aramayo; Erickson, James W; Erickson, JW; Erickson	Sci Rep
31263459	A Genomotaxonomy View of the <i>Bradyrhizobium</i> Genus.	Whole genome analysis of the <i>Bradyrhizobium</i> genus using average nucleotide identity (ANI) and phylogenomics showed the genus to be essentially monophyletic with seven robust groups within this taxon that includes nitrogen-fixing nodule forming bacteria as well as free living strains. Despite the wide genetic diversity of these bacteria no indication was found to suggest that the <i>Bradyrhizobium</i> genus have to split in different taxa. Bradyrhizobia have larger genomes than other genera of the Bradyrhizobiaceae family, probably reflecting their metabolic diversity and different lifestyles. Few plasmids in the sequenced strains were revealed from <i>rep</i> gene analysis and a relatively low proportion of the genome is devoted to mobile genetic elements. Sequence diversity of <i>recA</i> and <i>glnII</i> gene metadata was used to theoretically estimate the number of existing species and to predict how many would exist. There may be many more species than those presently described with predictions of around 800 species in nature. Different arguments are presented suggesting that nodulation might have arose in the ancestral genus <i>Bradyrhizobium</i>.	2019	Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Front Microbiol
30786165	Integrating Bacterial ChIP-seq and RNA-seq Data With SnakeChunks.	Next-generation sequencing (NGS) is becoming a routine approach in most domains of the life sciences. To ensure reproducibility of results, there is a crucial need to improve the automation of NGS data processing and enable forthcoming studies relying on big datasets. Although user-friendly interfaces now exist, there remains a strong need for accessible solutions that allow experimental biologists to analyze and explore their results in an autonomous and flexible way. The protocols here describe a modular system that enable a user to compose and fine-tune workflows based on SnakeChunks, a library of rules for the Snakemake workflow engine. They are illustrated using a study combining ChIP-seq and RNA-seq to identify target genes of the global transcription factor FNR in Escherichia coli, which has the advantage that results can be compared with the most up-to-date collection of existing knowledge about transcriptional regulation in this model organism, extracted from the RegulonDB database. © 2019 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.	2019 06	Rioualen, Claire; Rioualen, C; Rioualen; Charbonnier-Khamvongsa, Lucie; Charbonnier-Khamvongsa, L; Charbonnier-Khamvongsa; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; van Helden, Jacques; van Helden, J; van Helden	Curr Protoc Bioinformatics
30922683	Microbiome-MX 2018: microbiota and microbiome opportunities in Mexico, a megadiverse country.	A weekly conference series paired with lectures entitled "Microbiome-MX: exploring the Microbiota and Microbiome Research in Mexico" was organized to provide a multidisciplinary overview of the most recent research done in Mexico using high-throughput sequencing. Scientists and postgraduate students from several disciplines such as microbiology, bioinformatics, virology, immunology, nutrition, and medical genomics gathered to discuss state of the art in each of their respective subjects of expertise, as well as advances, applications and new opportunities on microbiota/microbiome research. In particular, high-throughput sequencing is a crucial tool to understand the challenges of a megadiverse developing country as Mexico, and moreover to know the scientific capital and capabilities available for collaboration. The conference series addressed three main topics important for Mexico: i) the complex role of microbiota in health and prevalent diseases such as obesity, diabetes, inflammatory bowel disease, tuberculosis, HIV, autoimmune diseases and gastric cancer; ii) the use of local, traditional and prehispanic products as pre/probiotics to modulate the microbiota and improve human health; and iii) the impact of the microbiota in shaping the biodiversity of economically important terrestrial and marine ecosystems. Herein, we summarize the contributions that Mexican microbiota/microbiome research is making to the global trends, describing the highlights of the conferences and lectures, rather than a review of the state-of-the-art of this research. This meeting report also presents the efforts of a multidisciplinary group of scientist to encourage collaborations and bringing this research field closer for younger generations.	2019 Jun - Aug	Cornejo-Granados, Fernanda; Cornejo-Granados, F; Cornejo-Granados; Calderón de la Barca, Ana María; Calderón de la Barca, AM; Calderón de la Barca; Torres, Nimbe; Torres, N; Torres; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Torres, Javier; Torres, J; Torres; López-Vidal, Yolanda; López-Vidal, Y; López-Vidal; Soberón, Xavier; Soberón, X; Soberón; Partida-Martínez, Laila P; Partida-Martínez, LP; Partida-Martínez; Pinto-Cardoso, Sandra; Pinto-Cardoso, S; Pinto-Cardoso; Alcaraz, Luis David; Alcaraz, LD; Alcaraz; Pardo-López, Liliana; Pardo-López, L; Pardo-López; Canizales-Quinteros, Samuel; Canizales-Quinteros, S; Canizales-Quinteros; Puente, José Luis; Puente, JL; Puente; Ochoa-Leyva, Adrián; Ochoa-Leyva, A; Ochoa-Leyva	Res Microbiol
30358529	Proteins in the periplasmic space and outer membrane vesicles of Rhizobium etli CE3 grown in minimal medium are largely distinct and change with growth phase.	Rhizobium etli CE3 grown in succinate-ammonium minimal medium (MM) excreted outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) with diameters of 40 to 100 nm. Proteins from the OMVs and the periplasmic space were isolated from 6 and 24 h cultures and identified by proteome analysis. A total of 770 proteins were identified: 73.8 and 21.3 % of these occurred only in the periplasm and OMVs, respectively, and only 4.9 % were found in both locations. The majority of proteins found in either location were present only at 6 or 24 h: in the periplasm and OMVs, only 24 and 9 % of proteins, respectively, were present at both sampling times, indicating a time-dependent differential sorting of proteins into the two compartments. The OMVs contained proteins with physiologically varied roles, including Rhizobium adhering proteins (Rap), polysaccharidases, polysaccharide export proteins, auto-aggregation and adherence proteins, glycosyl transferases, peptidoglycan binding and cross-linking enzymes, potential cell wall-modifying enzymes, porins, multidrug efflux RND family proteins, ABC transporter proteins and heat shock proteins. As expected, proteins with known periplasmic localizations (phosphatases, phosphodiesterases, pyrophosphatases) were found only in the periplasm, along with numerous proteins involved in amino acid and carbohydrate metabolism and transport. Nearly one-quarter of the proteins present in the OMVs were also found in our previous analysis of the R. etli total exproteome of MM-grown cells, indicating that these nanoparticles are an important mechanism for protein excretion in this species.	2019 06	Taboada, Hermenegildo; Taboada, H; Taboada; Meneses, Niurka; Meneses, N; Meneses; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Vargas-Lagunas, Carmen; Vargas-Lagunas, C; Vargas-Lagunas; Buchs, Natasha; Buchs, N; Buchs; Castro-Mondragón, Jaime A; Castro-Mondragón, JA; Castro-Mondragón; Heller, Manfred; Heller, M; Heller; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación	Microbiology (Reading)
30614762	Unexplored Genetic Diversity of Multidrug- and Extremely Drug-Resistant <i>Acinetobacter baumannii</i> Isolates from Tertiary Hospitals in Honduras.	Although <i>Acinetobacter baumannii</i> has become one of the most important nosocomial pathogens worldwide, very little is known about the genetic identity of isolates from less developed countries in Latin America. To alleviate this, we sequenced the genomes of 16 <i>A. baumannii</i> isolates from Honduras. Whole-genome sequencing was conducted on 16 isolates from five Honduran Hospitals. With the sequences of these Honduran isolates and other 42 publically available genomes, a maximum likelihood phylogeny was constructed to establish the relationship between the Honduran isolates and those belonging to the International Clones (ICs). In addition, sequence type (ST) assignation was conducted by the PubMLST, and antibiotic resistance genes were identified using ResFinder. The Honduran isolates are highly diverse and contain new allele combinations under the Bartual multilocus sequence typing scheme. The most common STs were ST<sub>B</sub>447/ST<sub>P</sub>10 and ST<sub>B</sub>758/ST<sub>P</sub>156. Furthermore, none of these isolates belongs to clonal complexes related to the ICs. Antibiotic susceptibility profiles of these isolates showed that they are multidrug resistant (MDR) or extensively drug resistant (XDR). In addition, the Honduran isolates had genes involved in resistance to seven antibiotic families. For instance, several <i>bla</i>OXA alleles were found, including <i>bla</i>OXA-23 and a gene encoding the metallo-beta-lactamase NDM-1. Notably, nine of the Honduran isolates have antibiotic resistance genes to three or more antibiotic families. In summary, in this study, we unveiled an untapped source of genetic diversity of MDR and XDR isolates; notably, these isolates did not belong to the well-known ICs.	2019 Jun	López-Leal, Gamaliel; López-Leal, G; López-Leal; Zuniga-Moya, Julio César; Zuniga-Moya, JC; Zuniga-Moya; Castro-Jaimes, Semiramis; Castro-Jaimes, S; Castro-Jaimes; Graña-Miraglia, Lucía; Graña-Miraglia, L; Graña-Miraglia; Pérez-Oseguera, Ángeles; Pérez-Oseguera, Á; Pérez-Oseguera; Reyes-García, Hilda Sarahi; Reyes-García, HS; Reyes-García; Gough-Coto, Simmons David; Gough-Coto, SD; Gough-Coto; Pavón-Madrid, René; Pavón-Madrid, R; Pavón-Madrid; Bejarano, Suyapa Aurora; Bejarano, SA; Bejarano; Ferrera, Annabelle; Ferrera, A; Ferrera; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	Microb Drug Resist
31151153	Exo-Metabolites of <i>Phaseolus vulgaris</i>-Nodulating Rhizobial Strains.	Rhizobia are able to convert dinitrogen into biologically available forms of nitrogen through their symbiotic association with leguminous plants. This results in plant growth promotion, and also in conferring host resistance to different types of stress. These bacteria can interact with other organisms and survive in a wide range of environments, such as soil, rhizosphere, and inside roots. As most of these processes are molecularly mediated, the aim of this research was to identify and quantify the exo-metabolites produced by <i>Rhizobium etli</i> CFN42, <i>Rhizobium leucaenae</i> CFN299, <i>Rhizobium tropici</i> CIAT899, <i>Rhizobium phaseoli</i> Ch24-10, and <i>Sinorhizobium americanum</i> CFNEI156, by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). Bacteria were grown in free-living cultures using minimal medium containing sucrose and glutamate. Interestingly, we found that even when these bacteria belong to the same family (<i>Rhizobiaceae</i>) and all form nitrogen-fixing nodules on <i>Phaseolus vulgaris</i> roots, they exhibited different patterns and concentrations of chemical species produced by them.	2019 May	Montes-Grajales, Diana; Montes-Grajales, D; Montes-Grajales; Esturau-Escofet, Nuria; Esturau-Escofet, N; Esturau-Escofet; Esquivel, Baldomero; Esquivel, B; Esquivel; Martinez-Romero, Esperanza; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero	Metabolites
31118102	Similarity corpus on microbial transcriptional regulation.	The ability to express the same meaning in different ways is a well-known property of natural language. This amazing property is the source of major difficulties in natural language processing. Given the constant increase in published literature, its curation and information extraction would strongly benefit from efficient automatic processes, for which corpora of sentences evaluated by experts are a valuable resource.	2019 05	Lithgow-Serrano, Oscar; Lithgow-Serrano, O; Lithgow-Serrano; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Ishida-Gutiérrez, Cecilia; Ishida-Gutiérrez, C; Ishida-Gutiérrez; Mejía-Almonte, Citlalli; Mejía-Almonte, C; Mejía-Almonte; Tierrafría, Víctor H; Tierrafría, VH; Tierrafría; Martínez-Luna, Sara; Martínez-Luna, S; Martínez-Luna; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Velázquez-Ramírez, David; Velázquez-Ramírez, D; Velázquez-Ramírez; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	J Biomed Semantics
31143531	PEST sequences from a cactus dehydrin regulate its proteolytic degradation.	Dehydrins (DHNs) are intrinsically disordered proteins expressed under cellular dehydration-related stresses. In this study, we identified potential proteolytic PEST sequences located at the central and C-terminal regions from the <i>Opuntia streptacantha</i> OpsDHN1 protein. In order to evaluate these PEST sequences as proteolytic tags, we generated a translational fusion with the GUS reporter protein and OpsDHN1 coding sequence. We found a GUS degradation effect in tobacco agro-infiltrated leaves and Arabidopsis transgenic lines that expressed the fusion GUS::OpsDHN1 full-length. Also, two additional translational fusions between OpsDHN1 protein fragments that include the central (GUS::PEST-1) or the C-terminal (GUS::PEST-2) PEST sequences were able to decrease the GUS activity, with PEST-2 showing the greatest reduction in GUS activity. GUS signal was abated when the OpsDHN1 fragment that includes both PEST sequences (GUS::PEST-1-2) were fused to GUS. Treatment with the MG132 proteasome inhibitor attenuated the PEST-mediated GUS degradation. Point mutations of phosphorylatable residues in PEST sequences reestablished GUS signal, hence these sequences are important during protein degradation. Finally, <i>in silico</i> analysis identified potential PEST sequences in other plant DHNs. This is the first study reporting presence of PEST motifs in dehydrins.	2019	Salazar-Retana, Adriana L; Salazar-Retana, AL; Salazar-Retana; Maruri-López, Israel; Maruri-López, I; Maruri-López; Hernández-Sánchez, Itzell E; Hernández-Sánchez, IE; Hernández-Sánchez; Becerra-Flora, Alicia; Becerra-Flora, A; Becerra-Flora; Guerrero-González, María de la Luz; Guerrero-González, ML; Guerrero-González; Jiménez-Bremont, Juan Francisco; Jiménez-Bremont, JF; Jiménez-Bremont	PeerJ
31081746	Rhizobium tropici CIAT 899 copA gene plays a fundamental role in copper tolerance in both free life and symbiosis with Phaseolus vulgaris.	Rhizobium tropici CIAT 899 is a facultative symbiotic diazotroph able to deal with stressful concentrations of metals. Nevertheless the molecular mechanisms involved in metal tolerance have not been elucidated. Copper (Cu<sup>2+</sup>) is a metal component essential for the heme-copper respiratory oxidases and enzymes that catalyse redox reactions, however, it is highly toxic when intracellular trace concentrations are surpassed. In this study, we report that R. tropici CIAT 899 is more tolerant to Cu<sup>2+</sup> than other Rhizobium and Sinorhizobium species. Through Tn5 random mutagenesis we identify a R. tropici mutant strain with a severe reduction in Cu<sup>2+</sup> tolerance. The Tn5 insertion disrupted the gene RTCIAT899_CH17575, encoding a putative heavy metal efflux P1B-1-type ATPase designated as copA. Phaseolus vulgaris plants inoculated with the copA::Tn5 mutant in the presence of toxic Cu<sup>2+</sup> concentrations showed a drastic reduction in plant and nodule dry weight, as well as nitrogenase activity. Nodules induced by the copA::Tn5 mutant present an increase in H2O2 concentration, lipoperoxidation and accumulate 40-fold more Cu<sup>2+</sup> than nodules formed by the wild-type strain. The copA::Tn5 mutant complemented with the copA gene recovered the wild-type symbiotic phenotypes. Therefore, the copA gene is essential for R. tropici CIAT 899 to survive in copper-rich environments in both free life and symbiosis with P. vulgaris plants.	2019 06	Elizalde-Díaz, J Pedro; Elizalde-Díaz, JP; Elizalde-Díaz; Hernández-Lucas, Ismael; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Medina-Aparicio, Liliana; Medina-Aparicio, L; Medina-Aparicio; Dávalos, Araceli; Dávalos, A; Dávalos; Leija, Alfonso; Leija, A; Leija; Alvarado-Affantranger, Xochitl; Alvarado-Affantranger, X; Alvarado-Affantranger; García-García, Jorge Donato; García-García, JD; García-García; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Garcia-de Los Santos, Alejandro; Garcia-de Los Santos, A; Garcia-de Los Santos	Microbiology (Reading)
31134023	<i>Rhizobium etli</i> Produces Nitrous Oxide by Coupling the Assimilatory and Denitrification Pathways.	More than two-thirds of the powerful greenhouse gas nitrous oxide (N<sub>2</sub>O) emissions from soils can be attributed to microbial denitrification and nitrification processes. Bacterial denitrification reactions are catalyzed by the periplasmic (Nap) or membrane-bound (Nar) nitrate reductases, nitrite reductases (NirK/<i>cd</i> <sub>1</sub>Nir), nitric oxide reductases (cNor, qNor/ Cu<sub>A</sub>Nor), and nitrous oxide reductase (Nos) encoded by <i>nap</i>/<i>nar</i>, <i>nir</i>, <i>nor</i> and <i>nos</i> genes, respectively. <i>Rhizobium etli</i> CFN42, the microsymbiont of common bean, is unable to respire nitrate under anoxic conditions and to perform a complete denitrification pathway. This bacterium lacks the <i>nap</i>, <i>nar</i> and <i>nos</i> genes but contains genes encoding NirK and cNor. In this work, we demonstrated that <i>R. etli</i> is able to grow with nitrate as the sole nitrogen source under aerobic and microoxic conditions. Genetic and functional characterization of a gene located in the <i>R. etli</i> chromosome and annotated as <i>narB</i> demonstrated that growth under aerobic or microoxic conditions with nitrate as nitrogen source as well as nitrate reductase activity requires NarB. In addition to be involved in nitrate assimilation, NarB is also required for NO and N<sub>2</sub>O production by NirK and cNor, respectively, in cells grown microoxically with nitrate as the only N source. Furthermore, β-glucuronidase activity from <i>nirK::uidA</i> and <i>norC::uidA</i> fusions, as well as NorC expression and Nir and Nor activities revealed that expression of <i>nor</i> genes under microoxic conditions also depends on nitrate reduction by NarB. Our results suggest that nitrite produced by NarB from assimilatory nitrate reduction is detoxified by NirK and cNor denitrifying enzymes that convert nitrite into NO which in turn is reduced to N<sub>2</sub>O, respectively.	2019	Hidalgo-García, Alba; Hidalgo-García, A; Hidalgo-García; Torres, María J; Torres, MJ; Torres; Salas, Ana; Salas, A; Salas; Bedmar, Eulogio J; Bedmar, EJ; Bedmar; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Delgado, María J; Delgado, MJ; Delgado	Front Microbiol
30928704	Insight into the structure, function and conjugative transfer of pLPU83a, an accessory plasmid of Rhizobium favelukesii LPU83.	Plasmids are widely distributed in rhizobia, a group of bacteria able to establish symbiotic relationships with the roots of legume plants. Two types of conjugative transfer (CT) regulation of these elements have been described in more detail. The most prevalent is through Quorum-Sensing (QS), mediated by the interaction of the TraR regulator protein and its cognate acyl-homoserine lactone (AHL) synthesized by TraI. In this study, we analyzed rhizobial plasmids classified according to their TraR regulators into four different groups. Each group has a particular genomic architecture. In one of the groups (I-C), represented by pLPU83a from Rhizobium favelukesii LPU83, CT induction requires TraR. With manual annotation, a traI was located in the plasmid distant to the traR gene. These features make pLPU83a an interesting plasmid for studying novel mechanisms of CT regulation. We mutagenized the traI gene, and found that it does not participate in CT regulation. Furthermore, we studied whether pLPU83a is subject to QS regulation by determining CT at different growth stages (cell densities). Our results showed no positive correlation between increase in culture densities and CT induction, on the contrary a slight decrease in CT was found at higher culture densities, unlike other TraR-depending plasmids. Our results show that transfer of pLPU83a is not regulated in a QS-dependent manner, and suggest that molecules not yet identified may activate its CT. Also, accumulation of a putative inhibitor cannot be disregarded.	2019 05	Castellani, Lucas G; Castellani, LG; Castellani; Nilsson, Juliet F; Nilsson, JF; Nilsson; Wibberg, Daniel; Wibberg, D; Wibberg; Schlüter, Andreas; Schlüter, A; Schlüter; Pühler, Alfred; Pühler, A; Pühler; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; Pistorio, Mariano; Pistorio, M; Pistorio; Torres Tejerizo, Gonzalo; Torres Tejerizo, G; Torres Tejerizo	Plasmid
30612723	Nodule bacteria from the cultured legume Phaseolus dumosus (belonging to the Phaseolus vulgaris cross-inoculation group) with common tropici phenotypic characteristics and symbiovar but distinctive phylogenomic position and chromid.	Phaseolus dumosus is an endemic species from mountain tops in Mexico that was found in traditional agriculture areas in Veracruz, Mexico. P. dumosus plants were identified by ITS sequences and their nodules were collected from agricultural fields or from trap plant experiments in the laboratory. Bacteria from P. dumosus nodules were identified as belonging to the phaseoli-etli-leguminosarum (PEL) or to the tropici group by 16S rRNA gene sequences. We obtained complete closed genomes from two P. dumosus isolates CCGE531 and CCGE532 that were phylogenetically placed within the tropici group but with a distinctive phylogenomic position and low average nucleotide identity (ANI). CCGE531 and CCGE532 had common phenotypic characteristics with tropici type B rhizobial symbionts. Genome synteny analysis and ANI showed that P. dumosus isolates had different chromids and our analysis suggests that chromids have independently evolved in different lineages of the Rhizobium genus. Finally, we considered that P. dumosus and Phaseolus vulgaris plants belong to the same cross-inoculation group since they have conserved symbiotic affinites for rhizobia.	2019 May	Ramírez-Puebla, Shamayim T; Ramírez-Puebla, ST; Ramírez-Puebla; Hernández, Marco A Rogel; Hernández, MAR; Hernández; Guerrero Ruiz, Gabriela; Guerrero Ruiz, G; Guerrero Ruiz; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Martinez-Romero, Julio C; Martinez-Romero, JC; Martinez-Romero; Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis Eduardo; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Núñez-de la Mora, Alejandra; Núñez-de la Mora, A; Núñez-de la Mora; Amescua-Villela, Guadalupe; Amescua-Villela, G; Amescua-Villela; Negrete-Yankelevich, Simoneta; Negrete-Yankelevich, S; Negrete-Yankelevich; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
30977796	The Type VI secretion system of Rhizobium etli Mim1 has a positive effect in symbiosis.	The Type VI secretion systems (T6SSs) allow bacteria to translocate effector proteins to other bacteria or to eukaryotic cells. However, little is known about the role of T6SS in endosymbiotic bacteria. In this work we describe the T6SS of Rhizobium etli Mim1, a bacteria able to effectively nodulate common beans. Structural genes and those encoding possible effectors have been identified in a 28-gene DNA region of R. etli Mim1 pRetMIM1f plasmid. Immunodetection of Hcp protein, a conserved key structural component of T6SS systems, indicates that this secretion system is active at high cell densities, in the presence of root exudates, and in bean nodules. Rhizobium etli mutants affected in T6SS structural genes produced plants with lower dry weight and smaller nodules than the wild-type strain, indicating for the first time that the T6SS plays a positive role in Rhizobium-legume symbiosis.	2019 05	Salinero-Lanzarote, Alvaro; Salinero-Lanzarote, A; Salinero-Lanzarote; Pacheco-Moreno, Alba; Pacheco-Moreno, A; Pacheco-Moreno; Domingo-Serrano, Lucía; Domingo-Serrano, L; Domingo-Serrano; Durán, David; Durán, D; Durán; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Albareda, Marta; Albareda, M; Albareda; Palacios, José Manuel; Palacios, JM; Palacios; Rey, Luis; Rey, L; Rey	FEMS Microbiol Ecol
31114559	Phylogenomic <i>Rhizobium</i> Species Are Structured by a Continuum of Diversity and Genomic Clusters.	The bacterial genus <i>Rhizobium</i> comprises diverse symbiotic nitrogen-fixing species associated with the roots of plants in the Leguminosae family. Multiple genomic clusters defined by whole genome comparisons occur within <i>Rhizobium</i>, but their equivalence to species is controversial. In this study we investigated such genomic clusters to ascertain their significance in a species phylogeny context. Phylogenomic inferences based on complete sets of ribosomal proteins and stringent core genome markers revealed the main lineages of <i>Rhizobium</i>. The clades corresponding to <i>R. etli</i> and <i>R. leguminosarum</i> species show several genomic clusters with average genomic nucleotide identities (ANI > 95%), and a continuum of divergent strains, respectively. They were found to be inversely correlated with the genetic distance estimated from concatenated ribosomal proteins. We uncovered evidence of a <i>Rhizobium</i> pangenome that was greatly expanded, both in its chromosomes and plasmids. Despite the variability of extra-chromosomal elements, our genomic comparisons revealed only a few chromid and plasmid families. The presence/absence profile of genes in the complete <i>Rhizobium</i> genomes agreed with the phylogenomic pattern of species divergence. Symbiotic genes were distributed according to the principal phylogenomic <i>Rhizobium</i> clades but did not resolve genome clusters within the clades. We distinguished some types of symbiotic plasmids within <i>Rhizobium</i> that displayed different rates of synonymous nucleotide substitutions in comparison to chromosomal genes. Symbiotic plasmids may have been repeatedly transferred horizontally between strains and species, in the process displacing and substituting pre-existing symbiotic plasmids. In summary, the results indicate that <i>Rhizobium</i> genomic clusters, as defined by whole genomic identities, might be part of a continuous process of evolutionary divergence that includes the core and the extrachromosomal elements leading to species formation.	2019	González, Víctor; González, V; González; Santamaría, Rosa Isela; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Pérez-Carrascal, Olga María; Pérez-Carrascal, OM; Pérez-Carrascal; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Juárez, Soledad; Juárez, S; Juárez; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; Cevallos, Miguel Ángel; Cevallos, MÁ; Cevallos; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero	Front Microbiol
31086743	Transcriptional analysis reveals the metabolic state of <i>Burkholderia zhejiangensis</i> CEIB S4-3 during methyl parathion degradation.	<i>Burkholderia zhejiangensis</i> CEIB S4-3 has the ability to degrade methyl parathion (MP) and its main hydrolysis byproduct <i>p</i>-nitrophenol (PNP). According to genomic data, several genes related with metabolism of MP and PNP were identified in this strain. However, the metabolic state of the strain during the MP degradation has not been evaluated. In the present study, we analyzed gene expression changes during MP hydrolysis and PNP degradation through a transcriptomic approach. The transcriptional analysis revealed differential changes in the expression of genes involved in important cellular processes, such as energy production and conversion, transcription, amino acid transport and metabolism, translation, ribosomal structure and biogenesis, among others. Transcriptomic data also exhibited the overexpression of both PNP-catabolic gene clusters (<i>pnpABA'E1E2FDC</i> and <i>pnpE1E2FDC</i>) present in the strain. We found and validated by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction the expression of the <i>methyl parathion degrading</i> gene, as well as the genes responsible for PNP degradation contained in two clusters. This proves the MP degradation pathway by the strain tested in this work. The exposure to PNP activates, in the first instance, the expression of the transcriptional regulators multiple antibiotic resistance regulator and Isocitrate Lyase Regulator (IclR), which are important in the regulation of genes from aromatic compound catabolism, as well as the expression of genes that encode transporters, permeases, efflux pumps, and porins related to the resistance to multidrugs and other xenobiotics. In the presence of the pesticide, 997 differentially expressed genes grouped in 104 metabolic pathways were observed. This report is the first to describe the transcriptomic analysis of a strain of <i>B. zhejiangensis</i> during the biodegradation of PNP.	2019	Castrejón-Godínez, María Luisa; Castrejón-Godínez, ML; Castrejón-Godínez; Ortiz-Hernández, Ma Laura; Ortiz-Hernández, ML; Ortiz-Hernández; Salazar, Emmanuel; Salazar, E; Salazar; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Mussali-Galante, Patricia; Mussali-Galante, P; Mussali-Galante; Tovar-Sánchez, Efraín; Tovar-Sánchez, E; Tovar-Sánchez; Sánchez-Salinas, Enrique; Sánchez-Salinas, E; Sánchez-Salinas; Rodríguez, Alexis; Rodríguez, A; Rodríguez	PeerJ
31057566	Intra and Extracellular Journey of the Phytohormone Salicylic Acid.	Salicylic acid (SA) is a plant hormone that has been described to play an essential role in the activation and regulation of multiple responses to biotic and to abiotic stresses. In particular, during plant-microbe interactions, as part of the defense mechanisms, SA is initially accumulated at the local infected tissue and then spread all over the plant to induce systemic acquired resistance at non-infected distal parts of the plant. SA can be produced by either the phenylalanine or isochorismate biosynthetic pathways. The first, takes place in the cytosol, while the second occurs in the chloroplasts. Once synthesized, free SA levels are regulated by a number of chemical modifications that produce inactive forms, including glycosylation, methylation and hydroxylation to dihydroxybenzoic acids. Glycosylated SA is stored in the vacuole, until required to activate SA-triggered responses. All this information suggests that SA levels are under a strict control, including its intra and extracellular movement that should be coordinated by the action of transporters. However, our knowledge on this matter is still very limited. In this review, we describe the most significant efforts made to date to identify the molecular mechanisms involved in SA transport throughout the plant. Additionally, we propose new alternatives that might help to understand the journey of this important phytohormone in the future.	2019	Maruri-López, Israel; Maruri-López, I; Maruri-López; Aviles-Baltazar, Norma Yaniri; Aviles-Baltazar, NY; Aviles-Baltazar; Buchala, Antony; Buchala, A; Buchala; Serrano, Mario; Serrano, M; Serrano	Front Plant Sci
30991941	Tracing the phylogenetic history of the Crl regulon through the Bacteria and Archaea genomes.	Crl, identified for curli production, is a small transcription factor that stimulates the association of the σ<sup>S</sup> factor (RpoS) with the RNA polymerase core through direct and specific interactions, increasing the transcription rate of genes during the transition from exponential to stationary phase at low temperatures, using indole as an effector molecule. The lack of a comprehensive collection of information on the Crl regulon makes it difficult to identify a dominant function of Crl and to generate any hypotheses concerning its taxonomical distribution in archaeal and bacterial organisms.	2019 Apr	Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda; Sánchez-Pérez, M; Sánchez-Pérez, M; Sánchez-Pérez; Velázquez-Ramírez, D A; Velázquez-Ramírez, DA; Velázquez-Ramírez; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	BMC Genomics
30586650	Analyzing the functional divergence of Slo1 and Slo3 channel subfamilies.	Slo1 and Slo3 encode close paralogues of the Slo potassium (K<sup>+</sup>) channels family. Despite their evolutionary relatedness, Slo1 and Slo3 channels show marked functional differences and evolutionary dynamics. Whereas Slo1 is a highly conserved and widely expressed channel, Slo3 is a rapidly evolving channel restricted to sperm. However, the molecular mechanisms behind the structural-functional differences of Slo1 and Slo3 channels are unknown. In this study, we explored the functional divergence of Slo1 and Slo3 subfamilies in vertebrates and examined the structure-function relationships of our predictions using experimental data. We found that ∼25% of sites between Slo1 and Slo3 underwent altered functional constraints, affecting some residues with important roles in Slo1 channel gating. Because functional divergence was principally generated by accelerated evolution of Slo3 after gene duplication, we explored selective forces behind Slo3 diversification. We observed that Slo3 subjected was principally subjected to relaxation of purifying selection, but we also identified several sites evolving under positive selection in the cytosolic domain of this channel . Concerning Slo1, this channel presented strong purifying selection. Whether residues evolving under different selection in Slo1 and Slo3 are responsible for functional differences observed between these channels, as well as among Slo3 orthologs, remains to be established.	2019 04	Vicens, Alberto; Vicens, A; Vicens; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Arenas, Miguel; Arenas, M; Arenas; Treviño, Claudia L; Treviño, CL; Treviño	Mol Phylogenet Evol
30738957	Immune checkpoints and the regulation of tolerogenicity in dendritic cells: Implications for autoimmunity and immunotherapy.	The immune system is responsible for defending the host from a large variety of potential pathogens, while simultaneously avoiding immune reactivity towards self-components. Self-tolerance has to be tightly maintained throughout several central and peripheral processes; immune checkpoints are imperative for regulating the immunity/tolerance balance. Dendritic cells (DCs) are specialized cells that capture antigens, and either activate or inhibit antigen-specific T cells. Therefore, they play a key role at inducing and maintaining immune tolerance. DCs that suppress the immune response have been called tolerogenic dendritic cells (tolDCs). Given their potential as a therapy to prevent transplant rejection and autoimmune damage, several strategies are under development to generate tolDCs, in order to avoid activation and expansion of self-reactive T cells. In this article, we summarize the current knowledge relative to the main features of tolDCs, their mechanisms of action and their therapeutic use for autoimmune diseases. Based on the literature reviewed, autologous antigen-specific tolDCs might constitute a promising strategy to suppress autoreactive T cells and reduce detrimental inflammatory processes.	2019 Apr	Funes, Samanta C; Funes, SC; Funes; Manrique de Lara, Amaranta; Manrique de Lara, A; Manrique de Lara; Altamirano-Lagos, María J; Altamirano-Lagos, MJ; Altamirano-Lagos; Mackern-Oberti, Juan P; Mackern-Oberti, JP; Mackern-Oberti; Escobar-Vera, Jorge; Escobar-Vera, J; Escobar-Vera; Kalergis, Alexis M; Kalergis, AM; Kalergis	Autoimmun Rev
30520095	Molecular detection of Bifidobacterium spp. in faeces of black howler monkeys (Alouatta pigra).	Bifidobacterium genus are considered to be beneficial bacteria for their hosts; however, knowledge about the specific species that are part of the gut microbiome of howler monkeys is scarce. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a useful technique for the identification of non-cultivable or difficult to grow bacterial species. With the goal of detecting species of the genus Bifidobacterium in black howler monkeys, we used PCR on DNA derived from faecal samples.	2019 04	Hernández-Rodríguez, Dolores; Hernández-Rodríguez, D; Hernández-Rodríguez; Vásquez-Aguilar, Antonio Acini; Vásquez-Aguilar, AA; Vásquez-Aguilar; Serio-Silva, Juan Carlos; Serio-Silva, JC; Serio-Silva; Rebollar, Eria Alaide; Rebollar, EA; Rebollar; Azaola-Espinosa, Alejandro; Azaola-Espinosa, A; Azaola-Espinosa	J Med Primatol
31062028	Polyamine biosynthesis and biological roles in rhizobia.	Polyamines are ubiquitous molecules containing two or more amino groups that fulfill varied and often essential physiological and regulatory roles in all organisms. In the symbiotic nitrogen-fixing bacteria known as rhizobia, putrescine and homospermidine are invariably produced while spermidine and norspermidine synthesis appears to be restricted to the alfalfa microsymbiont Sinorhizobium meliloti. Studies with rhizobial mutants deficient in the synthesis of one or more polyamines have shown that these compounds are important for growth, stress resistance, motility, exopolysaccharide production and biofilm formation. In this review, we describe these studies and examine how polyamines are synthesized and regulated in rhizobia.	2019 04	Becerra-Rivera, Victor A; Becerra-Rivera, VA; Becerra-Rivera; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn	FEMS Microbiol Lett
31323081	The chloroplast genome of the desiccation-tolerant moss Pseudocrossidium replicatum (Taylor) R.H. Zander.	Mosses in conjunction with hornworts and liverworts are collectively referred to as bryophytes. These seedless, nonvascular plants are the closest extant relatives of early terrestrial plants and their study is essential to understand the evolutionary first steps of land plants. Here we report the complete chloroplast (cp) genome sequence of Pseudocrossidium replicatum, a moss belonging to the Pottiaceae family that is common in the central highlands of Mexico, in South America, in southern USA, and in Kenia. The cp genome (plastome) of P. replicatum is 123,512 bp in size, comprising inverted repeats of 9,886 bp and single-copy regions of 85,146 bp (LSC) and 18,594 bp (SSC). The plastome encodes 82 different proteins, 31 different tRNAs, and 4 different rRNAs. Phylogenetic analysis using 16 cp protein-coding genes demonstrated that P. replicatum is closely related to Syntrichia ruralis, and the most basal mosses are Takakia lepidozioides followed by Sphagnum palustre. Our analysis indicates that during the evolution of the mosses' plastome, eight genes were lost. The complete plastome sequence reported here can be useful in evolutionary and population genetics.	2019 Apr-Jun	Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Guerrero, Gabriela; Guerrero, G; Guerrero; Ríos, Selma; Ríos, S; Ríos; Arroyo, Analilia; Arroyo, A; Arroyo; Villalobos, Miguel Angel; Villalobos, MA; Villalobos; Porta, Helena; Porta, H; Porta	Genet Mol Biol
30967846	Bacterial Diversity and Population Dynamics During the Fermentation of Palm Wine From Guerrero Mexico.	Palm wine is obtained by fermentation of palm tree sap. In the Pacific coast of Mexico, palm wine is called Tuba and it is consumed as a traditional fermented beverage. Tuba has empirical applications such as an auxiliary in gastrointestinal diseases and a good source of nutrients. In the present study, a next-generation sequencing of the V3-V4 regions of the 16S rRNA gene was employed to analyze bacterial diversity and population dynamics during the fermentation process of Tuba, both in laboratory controlled conditions and in commercial samples from local vendors. Taxonomic identification showed that <i>Fructobacillus</i> was the main genus in all the samples, following by <i>Leuconostoc</i>, <i>Gluconacetobacter</i>, <i>Sphingomonas</i>, and <i>Vibrio</i>. Alpha diversity analysis demonstrated variability between all the samples. Beta diversity clustered the bacterial population according to the collection origin of the sample. Metabolic functional profile inference showed that the members of the bacterial communities may present the vitamin, antibiotic and antioxidant biosynthesis genes. Additionally, we further investigated the correlation between the predominant genera and some composition parameters of this beverage. This study provides the basis of the bacterial community composition and functionality of the fermented beverage.	2019	Astudillo-Melgar, Fernando; Astudillo-Melgar, F; Astudillo-Melgar; Ochoa-Leyva, Adrián; Ochoa-Leyva, A; Ochoa-Leyva; Utrilla, José; Utrilla, J; Utrilla; Huerta-Beristain, Gerardo; Huerta-Beristain, G; Huerta-Beristain	Front Microbiol
30738581	Evidence for in vivo interactions between dehydrins and the aquaporin AtPIP2B.	Plants have developed mechanisms that allow them to tolerate different abiotic stresses. Among these mechanisms, the accumulation of specific proteins such as dehydrins (DHNs) and aquaporins (AQPs) can protect other proteins from damage during dehydration and may allow the control of water loss, respectively. Although both types of proteins are involved in plant protection against dehydration stress, a direct interaction between them has not been explored. A previous screen to identify potential OpsDHN1 protein interactions revealed an aquaporin as a possible candidate. Here, we used the Bimolecular Fluorescence Complementation (BiFC) approach to investigate the direct interaction of the cactus OpsDHN1 protein with the Arabidopsis plasma membrane PIP family aquaporin AtPIP2B (At2G37170). Since AtPIP2B is a membrane protein and OpsDHN1 is a cytosolic protein that may be peripherally associated with membranes, we propose that OpsDHN1/AtPIP2B interaction takes place at cellular membranes. Furthermore, we also demonstrate the interaction of AtPIP2B with the three Arabidopsis dehydrins COR47 (AT1G20440), ERD10 (At1g20450), and RAB18 (At5g66400).	2019 03	Hernández-Sánchez, Itzell Eurídice; Hernández-Sánchez, IE; Hernández-Sánchez; Maruri-López, Israel; Maruri-López, I; Maruri-López; Molphe-Balch, Eugenio Pérez; Molphe-Balch, EP; Molphe-Balch; Becerra-Flora, Alicia; Becerra-Flora, A; Becerra-Flora; Jaimes-Miranda, Fabiola; Jaimes-Miranda, F; Jaimes-Miranda; Jiménez-Bremont, Juan F; Jiménez-Bremont, JF; Jiménez-Bremont	Biochem Biophys Res Commun
30936856	Oxygen Reductases in Alphaproteobacterial Genomes: Physiological Evolution From Low to High Oxygen Environments.	Oxygen reducing terminal oxidases differ with respect to their subunit composition, heme groups, operon structure, and affinity for O<sub>2</sub>. Six families of terminal oxidases are currently recognized, all of which occur in alphaproteobacterial genomes, two of which are also present in mitochondria. Many alphaproteobacteria encode several different terminal oxidases, likely reflecting ecological versatility with respect to oxygen levels. Terminal oxidase evolution likely started with the advent of O<sub>2</sub> roughly 2.4 billion years ago and terminal oxidases diversified in the Proterozoic, during which oxygen levels remained low, around the Pasteur point (ca. 2 μM O<sub>2</sub>). Among the alphaproteobacterial genomes surveyed, those from members of the Rhodospirillaceae reveal the greatest diversity in oxygen reductases. Some harbor all six terminal oxidase types, in addition to many soluble enzymes typical of anaerobic fermentations in mitochondria and hydrogenosomes of eukaryotes. Recent data have it that O<sub>2</sub> levels increased to current values (21% v/v or ca. 250 μM) only about 430 million years ago. Ecological adaptation brought forth different lineages of alphaproteobacteria and different lineages of eukaryotes that have undergone evolutionary specialization to high oxygen, low oxygen, and anaerobic habitats. Some have remained facultative anaerobes that are able to generate ATP with or without the help of oxygen and represent physiological links to the ancient proteobacterial lineage at the origin of mitochondria and eukaryotes. Our analysis reveals that the genomes of alphaproteobacteria appear to retain signatures of ancient transitions in aerobic metabolism, findings that are relevant to mitochondrial evolution in eukaryotes as well.	2019	Degli Esposti, Mauro; Degli Esposti, M; Degli Esposti; Mentel, Marek; Mentel, M; Mentel; Martin, William; Martin, W; Martin; Sousa, Filipa L; Sousa, FL; Sousa	Front Microbiol
30842463	Evolutionary constraints on the complexity of genetic regulatory networks allow predictions of the total number of genetic interactions.	Genetic regulatory networks (GRNs) have been widely studied, yet there is a lack of understanding with regards to the final size and properties of these networks, mainly due to no network currently being complete. In this study, we analyzed the distribution of GRN structural properties across a large set of distinct prokaryotic organisms and found a set of constrained characteristics such as network density and number of regulators. Our results allowed us to estimate the number of interactions that complete networks would have, a valuable insight that could aid in the daunting task of network curation, prediction, and validation. Using state-of-the-art statistical approaches, we also provided new evidence to settle a previously stated controversy that raised the possibility of complete biological networks being random and therefore attributing the observed scale-free properties to an artifact emerging from the sampling process during network discovery. Furthermore, we identified a set of properties that enabled us to assess the consistency of the connectivity distribution for various GRNs against different alternative statistical distributions. Our results favor the hypothesis that highly connected nodes (hubs) are not a consequence of network incompleteness. Finally, an interaction coverage computed for the GRNs as a proxy for completeness revealed that high-throughput based reconstructions of GRNs could yield biased networks with a low average clustering coefficient, showing that classical targeted discovery of interactions is still needed.	2019 03	Campos, Adrian I; Campos, AI; Campos; Freyre-González, Julio A; Freyre-González, JA; Freyre-González	Sci Rep
30778181	Community richness of amphibian skin bacteria correlates with bioclimate at the global scale.	Animal-associated microbiomes are integral to host health, yet key biotic and abiotic factors that shape host-associated microbial communities at the global scale remain poorly understood. We investigated global patterns in amphibian skin bacterial communities, incorporating samples from 2,349 individuals representing 205 amphibian species across a broad biogeographic range. We analysed how biotic and abiotic factors correlate with skin microbial communities using multiple statistical approaches. Global amphibian skin bacterial richness was consistently correlated with temperature-associated factors. We found more diverse skin microbiomes in environments with colder winters and less stable thermal conditions compared with environments with warm winters and less annual temperature variation. We used bioinformatically predicted bacterial growth rates, dormancy genes and antibiotic synthesis genes, as well as inferred bacterial thermal growth optima to propose mechanistic hypotheses that may explain the observed patterns. We conclude that temporal and spatial characteristics of the host's macro-environment mediate microbial diversity.	2019 03	Kueneman, Jordan G; Kueneman, JG; Kueneman; Bletz, Molly C; Bletz, MC; Bletz; McKenzie, Valerie J; McKenzie, VJ; McKenzie; Becker, C Guilherme; Becker, CG; Becker; Joseph, Maxwell B; Joseph, MB; Joseph; Abarca, Juan G; Abarca, JG; Abarca; Archer, Holly; Archer, H; Archer; Arellano, Ana Lisette; Arellano, AL; Arellano; Bataille, Arnaud; Bataille, A; Bataille; Becker, Matthew; Becker, M; Becker; Belden, Lisa K; Belden, LK; Belden; Crottini, Angelica; Crottini, A; Crottini; Geffers, Robert; Geffers, R; Geffers; Haddad, Célio F B; Haddad, CFB; Haddad; Harris, Reid N; Harris, RN; Harris; Holden, Whitney M; Holden, WM; Holden; Hughey, Myra; Hughey, M; Hughey; Jarek, Michael; Jarek, M; Jarek; Kearns, Patrick J; Kearns, PJ; Kearns; Kerby, Jacob L; Kerby, JL; Kerby; Kielgast, Jos; Kielgast, J; Kielgast; Kurabayashi, Atsushi; Kurabayashi, A; Kurabayashi; Longo, Ana V; Longo, AV; Longo; Loudon, Andrew; Loudon, A; Loudon; Medina, Daniel; Medina, D; Medina; Nuñez, José J; Nuñez, JJ; Nuñez; Perl, R G Bina; Perl, RGB; Perl; Pinto-Tomás, Adrián; Pinto-Tomás, A; Pinto-Tomás; Rabemananjara, Falitiana C E; Rabemananjara, FCE; Rabemananjara; Rebollar, Eria A; Rebollar, EA; Rebollar; Rodríguez, Ariel; Rodríguez, A; Rodríguez; Rollins-Smith, Louise; Rollins-Smith, L; Rollins-Smith; Stevenson, Robert; Stevenson, R; Stevenson; Tebbe, Christoph C; Tebbe, CC; Tebbe; Vargas Asensio, Gabriel; Vargas Asensio, G; Vargas Asensio; Waldman, Bruce; Waldman, B; Waldman; Walke, Jenifer B; Walke, JB; Walke; Whitfield, Steven M; Whitfield, SM; Whitfield; Zamudio, Kelly R; Zamudio, KR; Zamudio; Zúñiga Chaves, Ibrahim; Zúñiga Chaves, I; Zúñiga Chaves; Woodhams, Douglas C; Woodhams, DC; Woodhams; Vences, Miguel; Vences, M; Vences	Nat Ecol Evol
30137210	MCO: towards an ontology and unified vocabulary for a framework-based annotation of microbial growth conditions.	A major component in increasing our understanding of the biology of an organism is the mapping of its genotypic potential into its phenotypic expression profiles. This mapping is executed by the machinery of gene regulation, which is essentially studied by changes in growth conditions. Although many efforts have been made to systematize the annotation of experimental conditions in microbiology, the available annotations are not based on a consistent and controlled vocabulary, making difficult the identification of biologically meaningful comparisons of knowledge derived from different experiments or laboratories.	2019 03	Tierrafría, V H; Tierrafría, VH; Tierrafría; Mejía-Almonte, C; Mejía-Almonte, C; Mejía-Almonte; Camacho-Zaragoza, J M; Camacho-Zaragoza, JM; Camacho-Zaragoza; Salgado, H; Salgado, H; Salgado; Alquicira, K; Alquicira, K; Alquicira; Ishida, C; Ishida, C; Ishida; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Bioinformatics
30686564	Maternal Immunization Confers Protection to the Offspring against an Attaching and Effacing Pathogen through Delivery of IgG in Breast Milk.	Owing to immature immune systems and impaired colonization resistance mediated by the microbiota, infants are more susceptible to enteric infections. Maternal antibodies can provide immunity, with maternal vaccination offering a protective strategy. We find that oral infection of adult females with the enteric pathogen Citrobacter rodentium protects dams and offspring against oral challenge. Parenteral immunization of dams with heat-inactivated C. rodentium reduces pathogen loads and mortality in offspring but not mothers. IgG, but not IgA or IgM, transferred through breast milk to the intestinal lumen of suckling offspring, coats the pathogen and reduces intestinal colonization. Protective IgG largely recognizes virulence factors encoded within the locus of enterocyte effacement (LEE) pathogenicity island, including the adhesin Intimin and T3SS filament EspA, which are major antigens conferring protection. Thus, pathogen-specific IgG in breast milk induced during maternal infection or immunization protects neonates against infection with an attaching and effacing pathogen.	2019 02	Caballero-Flores, Gustavo; Caballero-Flores, G; Caballero-Flores; Sakamoto, Kei; Sakamoto, K; Sakamoto; Zeng, Melody Y; Zeng, MY; Zeng; Wang, Yaqiu; Wang, Y; Wang; Hakim, Jill; Hakim, J; Hakim; Matus-Acuña, Violeta; Matus-Acuña, V; Matus-Acuña; Inohara, Naohiro; Inohara, N; Inohara; Núñez, Gabriel; Núñez, G; Núñez	Cell Host Microbe
30753218	Potential risk of Batrachochytrium salamandrivorans in Mexico.	The recent decline in populations of European salamanders caused by the chytrid fungus Batrachochytrium salamandrivorans (Bsal) has generated worldwide concern, as it is a major threat to amphibians. Evaluation of the areas most suitable for the establishment of Bsal combined with analysis of the distribution of salamander species could be used to generate and implement biosecurity measures and protect biodiversity at sites with high salamander diversity. In this study, we identified the areas most suitable for the establishment of Bsal in Mexico. Mexico has the second-highest salamander species diversity in the world; thus, we identified areas moderately to highly suitable for the establishment of Bsal with high salamander diversity as potential hotspots for surveillance. Central and Southern Mexico were identified as high-risk zones, with 13 hotspots where 30% of Mexican salamander species occur, including range-restricted species and endangered species. We propose that these hotspots should be thoroughly monitored for the presence of Bsal to prevent the spread of the pathogen if it is introduced to the country.	2019	Basanta, M Delia; Basanta, MD; Basanta; Rebollar, Eria A; Rebollar, EA; Rebollar; Parra-Olea, Gabriela; Parra-Olea, G; Parra-Olea	PLoS One
30834387	Genome Sequence of <i>Rhizobium jaguaris</i> CCGE525<sup>T</sup>, a Strain Isolated from <i>Calliandra grandiflora</i> Nodules from a Rain Forest in Mexico.	We present the genome sequence of Rhizobium jaguaris CCGE525<sup>T</sup>, a nitrogen-fixing bacterium isolated from nodules of Calliandra grandiflora. CCGE525<sup>T</sup> belongs to Rhizobium tropici group A, represents the symbiovar calliandrae, and forms nitrogen-fixing nodules in Phaseolus vulgaris. Genome-based metrics and phylogenomic approaches support Rhizobium jaguaris as a novel species.	2019 Feb	Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis E; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Guerrero, Gabriela; Guerrero, G; Guerrero; Rogel-Hernández, Marco A; Rogel-Hernández, MA; Rogel-Hernández; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Microbiol Resour Announc
30704413	Genome analysis of Salmonella enterica subsp. diarizonae isolates from invasive human infections reveals enrichment of virulence-related functions in lineage ST1256.	Salmonella enterica subsp. diarizonae (IIIb) is frequently isolated from the environment, cold-blooded reptiles, sheep and humans; however only a few studies describe the isolation of this subspecies from invasive human infections. The factors contributing to this unusual behavior are currently unknown.	2019 Jan	Giner-Lamia, Joaquín; Giner-Lamia, J; Giner-Lamia; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Betancor, Laura; Betancor, L; Betancor; Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva; Bisio, Julieta; Bisio, J; Bisio; Soleto, Lorena; Soleto, L; Soleto; Chabalgoity, José A; Chabalgoity, JA; Chabalgoity; Puente, José Luis; Puente, JL; Puente; Salmonella CYTED Network; García-Del Portillo, Francisco; García-Del Portillo, F; García-Del Portillo	BMC Genomics
30691411	First step toward gene expression data integration: transcriptomic data acquisition with COMMAND>_.	Exploring cellular responses to stimuli using extensive gene expression profiles has become a routine procedure performed on a daily basis. Raw and processed data from these studies are available on public databases but the opportunity to fully exploit such rich datasets is limited due to the large heterogeneity of data formats. In recent years, several approaches have been proposed to effectively integrate gene expression data for analysis and exploration at a broader level. Despite the different goals and approaches towards gene expression data integration, the first step is common to any proposed method: data acquisition. Although it is seemingly straightforward to extract valuable information from a set of downloaded files, things can rapidly get complicated, especially as the number of experiments grows. Transcriptomic datasets are deposited in public databases with little regard to data format and thus retrieving raw data might become a challenging task. While for RNA-seq experiments such problem is partially mitigated by the fact that raw reads are generally available on databases such as the NCBI SRA, for microarray experiments standards are not equally well established, or enforced during submission, and thus a multitude of data formats has emerged.	2019 Jan	Moretto, Marco; Moretto, M; Moretto; Sonego, Paolo; Sonego, P; Sonego; Villaseñor-Altamirano, Ana B; Villaseñor-Altamirano, AB; Villaseñor-Altamirano; Engelen, Kristof; Engelen, K; Engelen	BMC Bioinformatics
30625167	Cophylogenetic analysis suggests cospeciation between the Scorpion Mycoplasma Clade symbionts and their hosts.	Scorpions are predator arachnids of ancient origin and worldwide distribution. Two scorpion species, Vaejovis smithi and Centruroides limpidus, were found to harbor two different Mollicutes phylotypes: a Scorpion Mycoplasma Clade (SMC) and Scorpion Group 1 (SG1). Here we investigated, using a targeted gene sequencing strategy, whether these Mollicutes were present in 23 scorpion morphospecies belonging to the Vaejovidae, Carboctonidae, Euscorpiidae, Diplocentridae, and Buthidae families. Our results revealed that SMC is found in a species-specific association with Vaejovidae and Buthidae, whereas SG1 is uniquely found in Vaejovidae. SMC and SG1 co-occur only in Vaejovis smithi where 43% of the individuals host both phylotypes. A phylogenetic analysis of Mollicutes 16S rRNA showed that SMC and SG1 constitute well-delineated phylotypes. Additionally, we found that SMC and scorpion phylogenies are significantly congruent, supporting the observation that a cospeciation process may have occurred. This study highlights the phylogenetic diversity of the scorpion associated Mollicutes through different species revealing a possible cospeciation pattern.	2019	Bolaños, Luis M; Bolaños, LM; Bolaños; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Manrique de Lara, Amaranta; Manrique de Lara, A; Manrique de Lara; Migueles-Lozano, Analí; Migueles-Lozano, A; Migueles-Lozano; Gil-Aguillón, Citlali; Gil-Aguillón, C; Gil-Aguillón; Mateo-Estrada, Valeria; Mateo-Estrada, V; Mateo-Estrada; González-Serrano, Francisco; González-Serrano, F; González-Serrano; Santibáñez-López, Carlos E; Santibáñez-López, CE; Santibáñez-López; García-Santibáñez, Tonalli; García-Santibáñez, T; García-Santibáñez; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	PLoS One
30395280	RegulonDB v 10.5: tackling challenges to unify classic and high throughput knowledge of gene regulation in E. coli K-12.	RegulonDB, first published 20 years ago, is a comprehensive electronic resource about regulation of transcription initiation of Escherichia coli K-12 with decades of knowledge from classic molecular biology experiments, and recently also from high-throughput genomic methodologies. We curated the literature to keep RegulonDB up to date, and initiated curation of ChIP and gSELEX experiments. We estimate that current knowledge describes between 10% and 30% of the expected total number of transcription factor- gene regulatory interactions in E. coli. RegulonDB provides datasets for interactions for which there is no evidence that they affect expression, as well as expression datasets. We developed a proof of concept pipeline to merge binding and expression evidence to identify regulatory interactions. These datasets can be visualized in the RegulonDB JBrowse. We developed the Microbial Conditions Ontology with a controlled vocabulary for the minimal properties to reproduce an experiment, which contributes to integrate data from high throughput and classic literature. At a higher level of integration, we report Genetic Sensory-Response Units for 200 transcription factors, including their regulation at the metabolic level, and include summaries for 70 of them. Finally, we summarize our research with Natural language processing strategies to enhance our biocuration work.	2019 01	Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Sánchez-Pérez, Mishael; Sánchez-Pérez, M; Sánchez-Pérez; Gómez-Romero, Laura; Gómez-Romero, L; Gómez-Romero; Ledezma-Tejeida, Daniela; Ledezma-Tejeida, D; Ledezma-Tejeida; García-Sotelo, Jair Santiago; García-Sotelo, JS; García-Sotelo; Alquicira-Hernández, Kevin; Alquicira-Hernández, K; Alquicira-Hernández; Muñiz-Rascado, Luis José; Muñiz-Rascado, LJ; Muñiz-Rascado; Peña-Loredo, Pablo; Peña-Loredo, P; Peña-Loredo; Ishida-Gutiérrez, Cecilia; Ishida-Gutiérrez, C; Ishida-Gutiérrez; Velázquez-Ramírez, David A; Velázquez-Ramírez, DA; Velázquez-Ramírez; Del Moral-Chávez, Víctor; Del Moral-Chávez, V; Del Moral-Chávez; Bonavides-Martínez, César; Bonavides-Martínez, C; Bonavides-Martínez; Méndez-Cruz, Carlos-Francisco; Méndez-Cruz, CF; Méndez-Cruz; Galagan, James; Galagan, J; Galagan; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
30609847	Metatranscriptomic Analysis of the Bacterial Symbiont <i>Dactylopiibacterium carminicum</i> from the Carmine Cochineal <i>Dactylopius coccus</i> (Hemiptera: Coccoidea: Dactylopiidae).	The scale insect <i>Dactylopius coccus</i> produces high amounts of carminic acid, which has historically been used as a pigment by pre-Hispanic American cultures. Nowadays carmine is found in food, cosmetics, and textiles. Metagenomic approaches revealed that <i>Dactylopius</i> spp. cochineals contain two <i>Wolbachia</i> strains, a betaproteobacterium named <i>Candidatus</i> Dactylopiibacterium carminicum and <i>Spiroplasma</i>, in addition to different fungi. We describe here a transcriptomic analysis indicating that <i>Dactylopiibacterium</i> is metabolically active inside the insect host, and estimate that there are over twice as many <i>Dactylopiibacterium</i> cells in the hemolymph than in the gut, with even fewer in the ovary. Albeit scarce, the transcripts in the ovaries support the presence of <i>Dactylopiibacterium</i> in this tissue and a vertical mode of transmission. In the cochineal, <i>Dactylopiibacterium</i> may catabolize plant polysaccharides, and be active in carbon and nitrogen provisioning through its degradative activity and by fixing nitrogen. In most insects, nitrogen-fixing bacteria are found in the gut, but in this study they are shown to occur in the hemolymph, probably delivering essential amino acids and riboflavin to the host from nitrogen substrates derived from nitrogen fixation.	2019 Jan	Bustamante-Brito, Rafael; Bustamante-Brito, R; Bustamante-Brito; Vera-Ponce de León, Arturo; Vera-Ponce de León, A; Vera-Ponce de León; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Martínez-Romero, Julio César; Martínez-Romero, JC; Martínez-Romero; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Life (Basel)
31632421	Argonaute Proteins: Why Are They So Important for the Legume-Rhizobia Symbiosis?	Unlike most other land plants, legumes can fulfill their nitrogen needs through the establishment of symbioses with nitrogen-fixing soil bacteria (rhizobia). Through this symbiosis, fixed nitrogen is incorporated into the food chain. Because of this ecological relevance, the genetic mechanisms underlying the establishment of the legume-rhizobia symbiosis (LRS) have been extensively studied over the past decades. During this time, different types of regulators of this symbiosis have been discovered and characterized. A growing number of studies have demonstrated the participation of different types of small RNAs, including microRNAs, in the different stages of this symbiosis. The involvement of small RNAs also indicates that Argonaute (AGO) proteins participate in the regulation of the LRS. However, despite this obvious role, the relevance of AGO proteins in the LRS has been overlooked and understudied. Here, we discuss and hypothesize the likely participation of AGO proteins in the regulation of the different steps that enable the establishment of the LRS. We also briefly review and discuss whether rhizobial symbiosis induces DNA damages in the legume host. Understanding the different levels of LRS regulation could lead to the development of improved nitrogen fixation efficiency to enhance sustainable agriculture, thereby reducing dependence on inorganic fertilizers.	2019	Valdés-López, Oswaldo; Valdés-López, O; Valdés-López; Formey, Damien; Formey, D; Formey; Isidra-Arellano, Mariel C; Isidra-Arellano, MC; Isidra-Arellano; Reyero-Saavedra, Maria Del Rocio; Reyero-Saavedra, MDR; Reyero-Saavedra; Fernandez-Göbel, Tadeo F; Fernandez-Göbel, TF; Fernandez-Göbel; Sánchez-Correa, Maria Del Socorro; Sánchez-Correa, MDS; Sánchez-Correa	Front Plant Sci
31037804	Conjugative transfer between Rhizobium etli endosymbionts inside the root nodule.	Since the discovery that biological nitrogen fixation ensues in nodules resulting from the interaction of rhizobia with legumes, nodules were thought to be exclusive for hosting nitrogen-fixing and plant growth promoting bacteria. In this work, we uncover a novel function of nodules, as a niche permissive to acquisition of plasmids via conjugative transfer. We used Rhizobium etli CFN42, which nodulates Phaseolus vulgaris. The genome of R. etli CFN42 contains a chromosome and six plasmids. pRet42a is a conjugative plasmid regulated by Quorum-Sensing (QS), and pRet42d is the symbiotic plasmid. Here, using confocal microscopy and flow cytometry, we show that pRet42a transfers on the root's surface, and unexpectedly, inside the nodules. Conjugation still took place inside nodules, even when it was restricted on the plant surface by placing the QS traI regulator under the promoter of the nitrogenase gene, which is only expressed inside the nodules, or by inhibiting the QS transcriptional induction of transfer genes with a traM antiactivator on an unstable vector maintained on the plant surface and lost inside the nodules. These results conclusively confirm the occurrence of conjugation in these structures, defining them as a protected environment for bacterial diversification.	2019 Apr	Bañuelos-Vazquez, Luis Alfredo; Bañuelos-Vazquez, LA; Bañuelos-Vazquez; Torres Tejerizo, Gonzalo; Torres Tejerizo, G; Torres Tejerizo; Cervantes-De La Luz, Laura; Cervantes-De La Luz, L; Cervantes-De La Luz; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom	Environ Microbiol
30701503	Functional Analysis of Root microRNAs by a Constitutive Overexpression Approach in a Composite Plant System.	Agrobacterium-mediated transformation is a fast and efficient method for genome modification in plants. In this protocol, we apply this technique for the analysis of root microRNA functionality. The induction of hairy roots constitutively overexpressing a given microRNA precursor allows us, in a simple way, to modify the accumulation of specific mature microRNA and analyze the consequence of this alteration on a phenotype of interest. This method generates ready-to-phenotype "composite plants" with untransformed aerial part and microRNA-overexpressing root system, in about 20 days.	2019	Formey, Damien; Formey, D; Formey; Martín-Rodríguez, José Ángel; Martín-Rodríguez, JÁ; Martín-Rodríguez; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	Methods Mol Biol
31285584	Global phylogeography and ancient evolution of the widespread human gut virus crAssphage.	Microbiomes are vast communities of microorganisms and viruses that populate all natural ecosystems. Viruses have been considered to be the most variable component of microbiomes, as supported by virome surveys and examples of high genomic mosaicism. However, recent evidence suggests that the human gut virome is remarkably stable compared with that of other environments. Here, we investigate the origin, evolution and epidemiology of crAssphage, a widespread human gut virus. Through a global collaboration, we obtained DNA sequences of crAssphage from more than one-third of the world's countries and showed that the phylogeography of crAssphage is locally clustered within countries, cities and individuals. We also found fully colinear crAssphage-like genomes in both Old-World and New-World primates, suggesting that the association of crAssphage with primates may be millions of years old. Finally, by exploiting a large cohort of more than 1,000 individuals, we tested whether crAssphage is associated with bacterial taxonomic groups of the gut microbiome, diverse human health parameters and a wide range of dietary factors. We identified strong correlations with different clades of bacteria that are related to Bacteroidetes and weak associations with several diet categories, but no significant association with health or disease. We conclude that crAssphage is a benign cosmopolitan virus that may have coevolved with the human lineage and is an integral part of the normal human gut virome.	2019 10	Edwards, Robert A; Edwards, RA; Edwards; Vega, Alejandro A; Vega, AA; Vega; Norman, Holly M; Norman, HM; Norman; Ohaeri, Maria; Ohaeri, M; Ohaeri; Levi, Kyle; Levi, K; Levi; Dinsdale, Elizabeth A; Dinsdale, EA; Dinsdale; Cinek, Ondrej; Cinek, O; Cinek; Aziz, Ramy K; Aziz, RK; Aziz; McNair, Katelyn; McNair, K; McNair; Barr, Jeremy J; Barr, JJ; Barr; Bibby, Kyle; Bibby, K; Bibby; Brouns, Stan J J; Brouns, SJJ; Brouns; Cazares, Adrian; Cazares, A; Cazares; de Jonge, Patrick A; de Jonge, PA; de Jonge; Desnues, Christelle; Desnues, C; Desnues; Díaz Muñoz, Samuel L; Díaz Muñoz, SL; Díaz Muñoz; Fineran, Peter C; Fineran, PC; Fineran; Kurilshikov, Alexander; Kurilshikov, A; Kurilshikov; Lavigne, Rob; Lavigne, R; Lavigne; Mazankova, Karla; Mazankova, K; Mazankova; McCarthy, David T; McCarthy, DT; McCarthy; Nobrega, Franklin L; Nobrega, FL; Nobrega; Reyes Muñoz, Alejandro; Reyes Muñoz, A; Reyes Muñoz; Tapia, German; Tapia, G; Tapia; Trefault, Nicole; Trefault, N; Trefault; Tyakht, Alexander V; Tyakht, AV; Tyakht; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Wagemans, Jeroen; Wagemans, J; Wagemans; Zhernakova, Alexandra; Zhernakova, A; Zhernakova; Aarestrup, Frank M; Aarestrup, FM; Aarestrup; Ahmadov, Gunduz; Ahmadov, G; Ahmadov; Alassaf, Abeer; Alassaf, A; Alassaf; Anton, Josefa; Anton, J; Anton; Asangba, Abigail; Asangba, A; Asangba; Billings, Emma K; Billings, EK; Billings; Cantu, Vito Adrian; Cantu, VA; Cantu; Carlton, Jane M; Carlton, JM; Carlton; Cazares, Daniel; Cazares, D; Cazares; Cho, Gyu-Sung; Cho, GS; Cho; Condeff, Tess; Condeff, T; Condeff; Cortés, Pilar; Cortés, P; Cortés; Cranfield, Mike; Cranfield, M; Cranfield; Cuevas, Daniel A; Cuevas, DA; Cuevas; De la Iglesia, Rodrigo; De la Iglesia, R; De la Iglesia; Decewicz, Przemyslaw; Decewicz, P; Decewicz; Doane, Michael P; Doane, MP; Doane; Dominy, Nathaniel J; Dominy, NJ; Dominy; Dziewit, Lukasz; Dziewit, L; Dziewit; Elwasila, Bashir Mukhtar; Elwasila, BM; Elwasila; Eren, A Murat; Eren, AM; Eren; Franz, Charles; Franz, C; Franz; Fu, Jingyuan; Fu, J; Fu; Garcia-Aljaro, Cristina; Garcia-Aljaro, C; Garcia-Aljaro; Ghedin, Elodie; Ghedin, E; Ghedin; Gulino, Kristen M; Gulino, KM; Gulino; Haggerty, John M; Haggerty, JM; Haggerty; Head, Steven R; Head, SR; Head; Hendriksen, Rene S; Hendriksen, RS; Hendriksen; Hill, Colin; Hill, C; Hill; Hyöty, Heikki; Hyöty, H; Hyöty; Ilina, Elena N; Ilina, EN; Ilina; Irwin, Mitchell T; Irwin, MT; Irwin; Jeffries, Thomas C; Jeffries, TC; Jeffries; Jofre, Juan; Jofre, J; Jofre; Junge, Randall E; Junge, RE; Junge; Kelley, Scott T; Kelley, ST; Kelley; Khan Mirzaei, Mohammadali; Khan Mirzaei, M; Khan Mirzaei; Kowalewski, Martin; Kowalewski, M; Kowalewski; Kumaresan, Deepak; Kumaresan, D; Kumaresan; Leigh, Steven R; Leigh, SR; Leigh; Lipson, David; Lipson, D; Lipson; Lisitsyna, Eugenia S; Lisitsyna, ES; Lisitsyna; Llagostera, Montserrat; Llagostera, M; Llagostera; Maritz, Julia M; Maritz, JM; Maritz; Marr, Linsey C; Marr, LC; Marr; McCann, Angela; McCann, A; McCann; Molshanski-Mor, Shahar; Molshanski-Mor, S; Molshanski-Mor; Monteiro, Silvia; Monteiro, S; Monteiro; Moreira-Grez, Benjamin; Moreira-Grez, B; Moreira-Grez; Morris, Megan; Morris, M; Morris; Mugisha, Lawrence; Mugisha, L; Mugisha; Muniesa, Maite; Muniesa, M; Muniesa; Neve, Horst; Neve, H; Neve; Nguyen, Nam-Phuong; Nguyen, NP; Nguyen; Nigro, Olivia D; Nigro, OD; Nigro; Nilsson, Anders S; Nilsson, AS; Nilsson; O'Connell, Taylor; O'Connell, T; O'Connell; Odeh, Rasha; Odeh, R; Odeh; Oliver, Andrew; Oliver, A; Oliver; Piuri, Mariana; Piuri, M; Piuri; Prussin Ii, Aaron J; Prussin Ii, AJ; Prussin Ii; Qimron, Udi; Qimron, U; Qimron; Quan, Zhe-Xue; Quan, ZX; Quan; Rainetova, Petra; Rainetova, P; Rainetova; Ramírez-Rojas, Adán; Ramírez-Rojas, A; Ramírez-Rojas; Raya, Raul; Raya, R; Raya; Reasor, Kim; Reasor, K; Reasor; Rice, Gillian A O; Rice, GAO; Rice; Rossi, Alessandro; Rossi, A; Rossi; Santos, Ricardo; Santos, R; Santos; Shimashita, John; Shimashita, J; Shimashita; Stachler, Elyse N; Stachler, EN; Stachler; Stene, Lars C; Stene, LC; Stene; Strain, Ronan; Strain, R; Strain; Stumpf, Rebecca; Stumpf, R; Stumpf; Torres, Pedro J; Torres, PJ; Torres; Twaddle, Alan; Twaddle, A; Twaddle; Ugochi Ibekwe, MaryAnn; Ugochi Ibekwe, M; Ugochi Ibekwe; Villagra, Nicolás; Villagra, N; Villagra; Wandro, Stephen; Wandro, S; Wandro; White, Bryan; White, B; White; Whiteley, Andy; Whiteley, A; Whiteley; Whiteson, Katrine L; Whiteson, KL; Whiteson; Wijmenga, Cisca; Wijmenga, C; Wijmenga; Zambrano, Maria M; Zambrano, MM; Zambrano; Zschach, Henrike; Zschach, H; Zschach; Dutilh, Bas E; Dutilh, BE; Dutilh	Nat Microbiol
31667798	Identification of the symbiosis island of Bradyrhizobium paxllaeri LMTR 21<sup>T</sup>.	The complete symbiosis island (SI) of Bradyrhizobium paxllaeri LMTR 21<sup>T</sup>, a mutualistic symbiont of the legume Phaseolus lunatus, was identified and analyzed. The SI was 646 kb in size, had lower G+C content than the genome average, and encoded not only nodulation and nitrogen fixation functions but also those for hydrogen uptake, vitamin and phytohormone biosynthesis, molybdenum transport, nonribosomal peptide synthesis, and type III secretion. Additionally, two divergent nodA genes were encoded in the SI.	2020 Jun	Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Zúñiga-Dávila, Doris; Zúñiga-Dávila, D; Zúñiga-Dávila	Braz J Microbiol
30561303	Inaccurate Multilocus Sequence Typing of Acinetobacter baumannii.	Multilocus sequence typing has been useful for genotyping pathogens in surveillance and epidemiologic studies. However, it cannot reflect the true relationships of isolates for species with very dynamic genomes. Using a robust genome phylogeny, we demonstrated the limitations of this method for typing Acinetobacter baumannii.	2019 01	Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Graña-Miraglia, Lucía; Graña-Miraglia, L; Graña-Miraglia	Emerg Infect Dis
30454661	Isolation and characterization of endophytes from nodules of Mimosa pudica with biotechnological potential.	Legumes establish symbiotic relationships with different microorganisms, which could function as plant growth promotion microorganisms (PGPM). The finding of new PGPM strains is important to increase plant production avoiding or diminishing the use of industrial fertilizers. Thus, in this work we evaluated the plant growth promotion traits of ten strains isolated from Mimosa pudica root nodules. According to the 16S rDNA sequence, the microorganisms were identified as Enterobacter sp. and Serratia sp. To the best of our knowledge this is the first report describing and endophytic interaction between Mimosa pudica and Enterobacter sp. These strains have some plant growth promoting traits such as phosphate solubilization, auxin production and cellulase and chitinase activity. Strains identified as Serratia sp. inhibited the growth of the phytopathogenic fungi Fusarium sp., and Alternaria solani and the oomycete Phytophthora capsici. According to their biochemical characteristics, three strains were selected to test their plant growth promoting activity in a medium with an insoluble phosphate source. These bacteria show low specificity for their hosts as endophytes, since they were able to colonize two very different legumes: Phaseolus vulgaris and M. pudica. Seedlings of P. vulgaris were inoculated and grown for fifteen days. Enterobacter sp. NOD1 and NOD10, promoted growth as reflected by an increase in shoot height as well as an increase in the size and emergence of the first two trifolia. We could localize NOD5 as an endophyte in roots in P. vulgaris by transforming the strain with a Green Fluorescent Protein carrying plasmid. Experiments of co-inoculation with different Rhizobium etli strains allowed us to discard that NOD5 can fix nitrogen in the nodules formed by a R. etli Fix<sup>-</sup> strain. The isolates described in this work show biotechnological potential for plant growth promoting activity and production of indoleacetic acid and siderophores.	2019 Jan	Sánchez-Cruz, Ricardo; Sánchez-Cruz, R; Sánchez-Cruz; Tpia Vázquez, Irán; Tpia Vázquez, I; Tpia Vázquez; Batista-García, Ramón Alberto; Batista-García, RA; Batista-García; Méndez-Santiago, Erick Williams; Méndez-Santiago, EW; Méndez-Santiago; Sánchez-Carbente, María Del Rayo; Sánchez-Carbente, MDR; Sánchez-Carbente; Leija, Alfonso; Leija, A; Leija; Lira-Ruan, Verónica; Lira-Ruan, V; Lira-Ruan; Hernández, Gerogina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Wong-Villarreal, Arnoldo; Wong-Villarreal, A; Wong-Villarreal; Folch-Mallol, Jorge Luis; Folch-Mallol, JL; Folch-Mallol	Microbiol Res
30787915	Whole-Genome Sequences of Five <i>Acinetobacter baumannii</i> Strains From a Child With Leukemia M2.	<i>Acinetobacter baumannii</i> is an opportunistic pathogen and is one of the primary etiological agents of healthcare-associated infections (HAIs). <i>A. baumannii</i> infections are difficult to treat due to the intrinsic and acquired antibiotic resistance of strains of this bacterium, which frequently limits therapeutic options. In this study, five <i>A. baumannii</i> strains (810CP, 433H, 434H, 483H, and A-2), all of which were isolated from a child with leukemia M2, were characterized through antibiotic susceptibility profiling, the detection of genes encoding carbapenem hydrolyzing oxacillinases, pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE), multilocus sequence typing (MLST), adherence and invasion assays toward the A549 cell line, and the whole-genome sequence (WGS). The five strains showed Multidrug resistant (MDR) profiles and amplification of the <i>bla</i> <sub>OXA-23</sub> gene, belonging to ST758 and grouped into two PFGE clusters. WGS of 810CP revealed the presence of a circular chromosome and two small plasmids, pAba810CPa and pAba810CPb. Both plasmids carried genes encoding the Sp1TA system, although resistance genes were not identified. A gene-by-gene comparison analysis was performed among the <i>A. baumannii</i> strains isolated in this study and others <i>A</i>. <i>baumannii</i> ST758 strains (HIMFG and INCan), showing that 86% of genes were present in all analyzed strains. Interestingly, the 433H, 434H, and 483H strains varied by 8-10 single-nucleotide variants (SNVs), while the A2 and 810CP strains varied by 46 SNVs. Subsequently, an analysis using BacWGSTdb showed that all of our strains had the same resistance genes and were ST758. However, some variations were observed in relation to virulence genes, mainly in the 810CP strain. The genes involved in the synthesis of hepta-acylated lipooligosaccharides, the <i>pgaABCD</i> locus encoding poly-β-1-6-<i>N</i>-acetylglucosamine, the <i>ompA</i> gene, Csu pili, <i>bap</i>, the two-component system <i>bfms</i>/<i>bfmR</i>, a member of the phospholipase D family, and two iron-uptake systems were identified in our <i>A</i>. <i>baumannii</i> strains genome. The five <i>A. baumannii</i> strains isolated from the child were genetically different and showed important characteristics that promote survival in a hospital environment. The elucidation of their genomic sequences provides important information for understanding their epidemiology, antibiotic resistance, and putative virulence factors.	2019	Mancilla-Rojano, Jetsi; Mancilla-Rojano, J; Mancilla-Rojano; Castro-Jaimes, Semiramis; Castro-Jaimes, S; Castro-Jaimes; Ochoa, Sara A; Ochoa, SA; Ochoa; Bobadilla Del Valle, Miriam; Bobadilla Del Valle, M; Bobadilla Del Valle; Luna-Pineda, Victor M; Luna-Pineda, VM; Luna-Pineda; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Laris-González, Almudena; Laris-González, A; Laris-González; Arellano-Galindo, José; Arellano-Galindo, J; Arellano-Galindo; Parra-Ortega, Israel; Parra-Ortega, I; Parra-Ortega; Hernández-Castro, Rigoberto; Hernández-Castro, R; Hernández-Castro; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Xicohtencatl-Cortes, Juan; Xicohtencatl-Cortes, J; Xicohtencatl-Cortes; Cruz-Córdova, Ariadnna; Cruz-Córdova, A; Cruz-Córdova	Front Microbiol
30269496	Launching the C-HPP neXt-CP50 Pilot Project for Functional Characterization of Identified Proteins with No Known Function.	An important goal of the Human Proteome Organization (HUPO) Chromosome-centric Human Proteome Project (C-HPP) is to correctly define the number of canonical proteins encoded by their cognate open reading frames on each chromosome in the human genome. When identified with high confidence of protein evidence (PE), such proteins are termed PE1 proteins in the online database resource, neXtProt. However, proteins that have not been identified unequivocally at the protein level but that have other evidence suggestive of their existence (PE2-4) are termed missing proteins (MPs). The number of MPs has been reduced from 5511 in 2012 to 2186 in 2018 (neXtProt 2018-01-17 release). Although the annotation of the human proteome has made significant progress, the "parts list" alone does not inform function. Indeed, 1937 proteins representing ∼10% of the human proteome have no function either annotated from experimental characterization or predicted by homology to other proteins. Specifically, these 1937 "dark proteins" of the so-called dark proteome are composed of 1260 functionally uncharacterized but identified PE1 proteins, designated as uPE1, plus 677 MPs from categories PE2-PE4, which also have no known or predicted function and are termed uMPs. At the HUPO-2017 Annual Meeting, the C-HPP officially adopted the uPE1 pilot initiative, with 14 participating international teams later committing to demonstrate the feasibility of the functional characterization of large numbers of dark proteins (CP), starting first with 50 uPE1 proteins, in a stepwise chromosome-centric organizational manner. The second aim of the feasibility phase to characterize protein (CP) functions of 50 uPE1 proteins, termed the neXt-CP50 initiative, is to utilize a variety of approaches and workflows according to individual team expertise, interest, and resources so as to enable the C-HPP to recommend experimentally proven workflows to the proteome community within 3 years. The results from this pilot will not only be the cornerstone of a larger characterization initiative but also enhance understanding of the human proteome and integrated cellular networks for the discovery of new mechanisms of pathology, mechanistically informative biomarkers, and rational drug targets.	2018 12	Paik, Young-Ki; Paik, YK; Paik; Lane, Lydie; Lane, L; Lane; Kawamura, Takeshi; Kawamura, T; Kawamura; Chen, Yu-Ju; Chen, YJ; Chen; Cho, Je-Yoel; Cho, JY; Cho; LaBaer, Joshua; LaBaer, J; LaBaer; Yoo, Jong Shin; Yoo, JS; Yoo; Domont, Gilberto; Domont, G; Domont; Corrales, Fernando; Corrales, F; Corrales; Omenn, Gilbert S; Omenn, GS; Omenn; Archakov, Alexander; Archakov, A; Archakov; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Lui, Siqi; Lui, S; Lui; Salekdeh, Ghasem Hosseini; Salekdeh, GH; Salekdeh; Cho, Jin-Young; Cho, JY; Cho; Kim, Chae-Yeon; Kim, CY; Kim; Overall, Christopher M; Overall, CM; Overall	J Proteome Res
30284012	Analysis of differentially upregulated proteins in ptsHIcrr<sup>-</sup> and rppH<sup>-</sup> mutants in Escherichia coli during an adaptive laboratory evolution experiment.	The previous deletion of the cytoplasmic components of the phosphotransferase system (PTS) in Escherichia coli JM101 resulted in the PTS<sup>-</sup> derivative strain PB11 with severely impaired growth capability in glucose as the sole carbon source. Previous adaptive laboratory evolution (ALE) experiment led to select a fast-growing strain named PB12 from PB11. Comparative genome analysis of PB12 showed a chromosomal deletion, which result in the loss of several genes including rppH which codes for the RNA pyrophosphohydrolase RppH, involved in the preparation of hundreds of mRNAs for further degradation by RNase E. Previous inactivation of rppH in PB11 (PB11rppH<sup>-</sup>) improved significantly its growing capabilities and increased several mRNAs respect its parental strain PB11. These previous results led to propose to the PB11rppH<sup>-</sup> mutant as an intermediate between PB11 and PB12 strains merged during the early ALE experiment. In this contribution, we report the metabolic response to the PTS<sup>-</sup> and rppH<sup>-</sup> mutations in the deep of a proteomic approach to understanding the relevance of rppH<sup>-</sup> phenotype during an ALE experiment. Differentially upregulated proteins between the wild-type JM101/PB11, PB11/PB11rppH<sup>-</sup>, and PB11/PB12 comparisons led to identifying 45 proteins between strain comparisons. Downregulated or upregulated proteins in PB11rppH<sup>-</sup> were found expressed at an intermediate level with respect to PB11 and PB12. Many of these proteins were found involved in non-previously metabolic traits reported in the study of the PTS<sup>-</sup> strains, including glucose, amino acids, ribose transport; amino acid biosynthesis; NAD biosynthesis/salvage pathway, biosynthesis of Ac-CoA precursors; detoxification and degradation pathways; stress response; protein synthesis; and possible mutator activities between comparisons. No changes were found in the expression of galactose permease GalP, previously proposed as the primary glucose transporter in the absence of PTS selected by the PTS<sup>-</sup> derivatives during the ALE experiment. This result suggests that the evolving PTS<sup>-</sup> population selected other transporters such as LamB, MglB, and ManX instead of GalP for glucose uptake during the early ALE experiment. Analysis of the biological relevance of the metabolic traits developed by the studied strains provided valuable information to understand the relevance of the rppH<sup>-</sup> mutation in the PTS<sup>-</sup> background during an ALE experiment as a strategy for the selection of valuable phenotypes for metabolic engineering purposes.	2018 Dec	Aguilar, César; Aguilar, C; Aguilar; Martínez-Batallar, Gabriel; Martínez-Batallar, G; Martínez-Batallar; Flores, Noemí; Flores, N; Flores; Moreno-Avitia, Fabián; Moreno-Avitia, F; Moreno-Avitia; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Escalante, Adelfo; Escalante, A; Escalante; Bolívar, Francisco; Bolívar, F; Bolívar	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol
30519218	The Outer Membrane Vesicles of <i>Aeromonas hydrophila</i> ATCC<sup>®</sup> 7966<sup>TM</sup>: A Proteomic Analysis and Effect on Host Cells.	Gram-negative bacteria release outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) into the extracellular environment. OMVs have been studied extensively in bacterial pathogens, however, information related with the composition of <i>Aeromonas hydrophila</i> OMVs is missing. In this study we analyzed the composition of purified OMVs from <i>A. hydrophila</i> ATCC<sup>®</sup> 7966<sup>TM</sup> by proteomics. Also we studied the effect of OMVs on human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Vesicles were grown in agar plates and then purified through ultracentrifugation steps. Purified vesicles showed an average diameter of 90-170 nm. Moreover, 211 unique proteins were found in OMVs from <i>A. hydrophila</i>; some of them are well-known as virulence factors such as: haemolysin Ahh1, RtxA toxin, extracellular lipase, HcpA protein, among others. OMVs from <i>A. hydrophila</i> ATCC<sup>®</sup> 7966<sup>TM</sup> induced lymphocyte activation and apoptosis in monocytes, as well as over-expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines. This work contributed to the knowledge of the composition of the vesicles of <i>A. hydrophila</i> ATCC<sup>®</sup> 7966<sup>TM</sup> and their interaction with the host cell.	2018	Avila-Calderón, Eric Daniel; Avila-Calderón, ED; Avila-Calderón; Otero-Olarra, Jorge Erick; Otero-Olarra, JE; Otero-Olarra; Flores-Romo, Leopoldo; Flores-Romo, L; Flores-Romo; Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta; Aguilera-Arreola, Ma Guadalupe; Aguilera-Arreola, MG; Aguilera-Arreola; Morales-García, María Rosario; Morales-García, MR; Morales-García; Calderón-Amador, Juana; Calderón-Amador, J; Calderón-Amador; Medina-Chávez, Olin; Medina-Chávez, O; Medina-Chávez; Donis-Maturano, Luis; Donis-Maturano, L; Donis-Maturano; Ruiz-Palma, María Del Socorro; Ruiz-Palma, MDS; Ruiz-Palma; Contreras-Rodríguez, Araceli; Contreras-Rodríguez, A; Contreras-Rodríguez	Front Microbiol
30386709	Phylogenomics picks out the par excellence markers for species phylogeny in the genus <i>Staphylococcus</i>.	Although genome sequencing has become a very promising approach to conduct microbial taxonomy, few labs have the resources to afford this especially when dealing with data sets of hundreds to thousands of isolates. The goal of this study was to identify the most adequate loci for inferring the phylogeny of the species within the genus <i>Staphylococcus</i>; with the idea that those who cannot afford whole genome sequencing can use these loci to carry out species assignation confidently. We retrieved 177 orthologous groups (OGs) by using a genome-based phylogeny and an average nucleotide identity analysis. The top 26 OGs showed topologies similar to the species tree and the concatenation of them yielded a topology almost identical to that of the species tree. Furthermore, a phylogeny of just the top seven OGs could be used for species assignment. We sequenced four <i>staphylococcus</i> isolates to test the 26 OGs and found that these OGs were far superior to commonly used markers for this genus. On the whole, our procedure allowed identification of the most adequate markers for inferring the phylogeny within the genus <i>Staphylococcus</i>. We anticipate that this approach will be employed for the identification of the most suitable markers for other bacterial genera and can be very helpful to sort out poorly classified genera.	2018	Graña-Miraglia, Lucia; Graña-Miraglia, L; Graña-Miraglia; Arreguín-Pérez, César; Arreguín-Pérez, C; Arreguín-Pérez; López-Leal, Gamaliel; López-Leal, G; López-Leal; Muñoz, Alan; Muñoz, A; Muñoz; Pérez-Oseguera, Angeles; Pérez-Oseguera, A; Pérez-Oseguera; Miranda-Miranda, Estefan; Miranda-Miranda, E; Miranda-Miranda; Cossío-Bayúgar, Raquel; Cossío-Bayúgar, R; Cossío-Bayúgar; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez	PeerJ
30386264	Neuroimaging Studies of Suicidal Behavior and Non-suicidal Self-Injury in Psychiatric Patients: A Systematic Review.	<b>Background:</b> With around 800,000 people taking their own lives every year, suicide is a growing health concern. Understanding the factors that underlie suicidality and identifying specific variables associated with increased risk is paramount for increasing our understanding of suicide etiology. Neuroimaging methods that enable the investigation of structural and functional brain markers <i>in vivo</i> are a promising tool in suicide research. Although a number of studies in clinical samples have been published to date, evidence about neuroimaging correlates for suicidality remains controversial. <b>Objective:</b> Patients with mental disorders have an increased risk for both suicidal behavior and non-suicidal self-injury. This manuscript aims to present an up-to-date overview of the literature on potential neuroimaging markers associated with SB and NSSI in clinical samples. We sought to identify consistently reported structural changes associated with suicidal symptoms within and across psychiatric disorders. <b>Methods:</b> A systematic literature search across four databases was performed to identify all English-language neuroimaging articles involving patients with at least one psychiatric diagnosis and at least one variable assessing SB or NSSI. We evaluated and screened evidence in these articles against a set of inclusion/exclusion criteria and categorized them by disease, adhering to the PRISMA guidelines. <b>Results:</b> Thirty-three original scientific articles investigating neuroimaging correlates of SB in psychiatric samples were found, but no single article focusing on NSSI alone. Associations between suicidality and regions in frontal and temporal cortex were reported by 15 and 9 studies across four disorders, respectively. Furthermore, differences in hippocampus were reported by four studies across three disorders. However, we found a significant lack of replicability (consistency in size and direction) of results across studies. <b>Conclusions:</b> Our systematic review revealed a lack of neuroimaging studies focusing on NSSI in clinical samples. We highlight several potential sources of bias in published studies, and conclude that future studies should implement more rigorous study designs to minimize bias risk. Despite several studies reporting associations between SB and anatomical differences in the frontal cortex, there was a lack of consistency across them. We conclude that better-powered samples, standardized neuroimaging and analytical protocols are needed to continue advancing knowledge in this field.	2018	Domínguez-Baleón, Carmen; Domínguez-Baleón, C; Domínguez-Baleón; Gutiérrez-Mondragón, Luis F; Gutiérrez-Mondragón, LF; Gutiérrez-Mondragón; Campos-González, Adrián I; Campos-González, AI; Campos-González; Rentería, Miguel E; Rentería, ME; Rentería	Front Psychiatry
30326664	Phosphate Deficiency Negatively Affects Early Steps of the Symbiosis between Common Bean and Rhizobia.	Phosphate (Pi) deficiency reduces nodule formation and development in different legume species including common bean. Despite significant progress in the understanding of the genetic responses underlying the adaptation of nodules to Pi deficiency, it is still unclear whether this nutritional deficiency interferes with the molecular dialogue between legumes and rhizobia. If so, what part of the molecular dialogue is impaired? In this study, we provide evidence demonstrating that Pi deficiency negatively affects critical early molecular and physiological responses that are required for a successful symbiosis between common bean and rhizobia. We demonstrated that the infection thread formation and the expression of <i>PvNSP2</i>, <i>PvNIN</i>, and <i>PvFLOT2</i>, which are genes controlling the nodulation process were significantly reduced in Pi-deficient common bean seedlings. In addition, whole-genome transcriptional analysis revealed that the expression of hormones-related genes is compromised in Pi-deficient seedlings inoculated with rhizobia. Moreover, we showed that regardless of the presence or absence of rhizobia, the expression of <i>PvRIC1</i> and <i>PvRIC2</i>, two genes participating in the autoregulation of nodule numbers, was higher in Pi-deficient seedlings compared to control seedlings. The data presented in this study provides a mechanistic model to better understand how Pi deficiency impacts the early steps of the symbiosis between common bean and rhizobia.	2018 Oct	Isidra-Arellano, Mariel C; Isidra-Arellano, MC; Isidra-Arellano; Reyero-Saavedra, María Del Rocio; Reyero-Saavedra, MDR; Reyero-Saavedra; Sánchez-Correa, Maria Del Socorro; Sánchez-Correa, MDS; Sánchez-Correa; Pingault, Lise; Pingault, L; Pingault; Sen, Sidharth; Sen, S; Sen; Joshi, Trupti; Joshi, T; Joshi; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Castro-Guerrero, Norma A; Castro-Guerrero, NA; Castro-Guerrero; Mendoza-Cozatl, David G; Mendoza-Cozatl, DG; Mendoza-Cozatl; Libault, Marc; Libault, M; Libault; Valdés-López, Oswaldo; Valdés-López, O; Valdés-López	Genes (Basel)
30309375	Protective role of the vulture facial skin and gut microbiomes aid adaptation to scavenging.	Vultures have adapted the remarkable ability to feed on carcasses that may contain microorganisms that would be pathogenic to most other animals. The holobiont concept suggests that the genetic basis of such adaptation may not only lie within their genomes, but additionally in their associated microbes. To explore this, we generated shotgun DNA sequencing datasets of the facial skin and large intestine microbiomes of the black vulture (Coragyps atratus) and the turkey vulture (Cathartes aura). We characterized the functional potential and taxonomic diversity of their microbiomes, the potential pathogenic challenges confronted by vultures, and the microbial taxa and genes that could play a protective role on the facial skin and in the gut.	2018 Oct	Zepeda Mendoza, Marie Lisandra; Zepeda Mendoza, ML; Zepeda Mendoza; Roggenbuck, Michael; Roggenbuck, M; Roggenbuck; Manzano Vargas, Karla; Manzano Vargas, K; Manzano Vargas; Hansen, Lars Hestbjerg; Hansen, LH; Hansen; Brunak, Søren; Brunak, S; Brunak; Gilbert, M Thomas P; Gilbert, MTP; Gilbert; Sicheritz-Pontén, Thomas; Sicheritz-Pontén, T; Sicheritz-Pontén	Acta Vet Scand
30227648	Novel Roles of Non-Coding RNAs in Opioid Signaling and Cardioprotection.	Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality across the world. A large proportion of CVD deaths are secondary to coronary artery disease (CAD) and myocardial infarction (MI). Even though prevention is the best strategy to reduce risk factors associated with MI, the use of cardioprotective interventions aimed at improving patient outcomes is of great interest. Opioid conditioning has been shown to be effective in reducing myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) and cardiomyocyte death. However, the molecular mechanisms behind these effects are under investigation and could provide the basis for the development of novel therapeutic approaches in the treatment of CVD. Non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs), which are functional RNA molecules that do not translate into proteins, are critical modulators of cardiac gene expression during heart development and disease. Moreover, ncRNAs such as microRNAs (miRNAs) and long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are known to be induced by opioid receptor activation and regulate opioid signaling pathways. Recent advances in experimental and computational tools have accelerated the discovery and functional characterization of ncRNAs. In this study, we review the current understanding of the role of ncRNAs in opioid signaling and opioid-induced cardioprotection.	2018 Sep	Melo, Zesergio; Melo, Z; Melo; Ishida, Cecilia; Ishida, C; Ishida; Goldaraz, Maria de la Paz; Goldaraz, MP; Goldaraz; Rojo, Rocio; Rojo, R; Rojo; Echavarria, Raquel; Echavarria, R; Echavarria	Noncoding RNA
30165827	Analysis of genome sequence and symbiotic ability of rhizobial strains isolated from seeds of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris).	Rhizobia are alpha-proteobacteria commonly found in soil and root nodules of legumes. It was recently reported that nitrogen-fixing rhizobia also inhabit legume seeds. In this study, we examined whole-genome sequences of seven strains of rhizobia isolated from seeds of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris).	2018 Aug	Aguilar, Alejandro; Aguilar, A; Aguilar; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Dávalos, Araceli; Dávalos, A; Dávalos; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora; Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta	BMC Genomics
30214401	Exhaustive Multi-Parametric Assessment of the Behavioral Array of Daily Activities of Mice Using Cluster and Factor Analysis.	Using automated supervised behavioral assessment software, we recorded and analyzed 24 h non-interrupted recordings of mice for a duration of 11 days. With the assistance of free R programming, we used correlation matrix-based hierarchical clustering and factor analysis to separate the 33 activities into meaningful clusters and groups without losing the exhaustive nature of the findings. These groups represent novel meaningful behavioral patterns exhibited by mice in home cage. Thirty-three activities were separated into 5 clusters based on dissimilarity between activities and 6 factors based on statistical modeling. Using these two methods, we describe and compare behavioral arrays of two groups of animals: 1. Continuously recorded for 11 days in social isolation and 2. Intermittently socially isolated for recording on days 1, 3, 5, 8, and 10, while socializing on the other days. This is the first work to our knowledge that interprets mouse home cage activities throughout a 24 h period and proposes a base line of a daily routine of a healthy C57Bl/6J mouse that can be used for various experimental paradigms, including disease, neuroinflammation, or drug testing to trace behavioral changes that follow intervention. In this work, we defined the necessary acclimatization period for the 24 h recording paradigm of home cage behavior. We demonstrated the behavioral changes that are associated with the effect of social isolation, intermittent socialization, and re-introduction to a familiar home cage. We provide the full description of the codes used in R.	2018	Yamamoto, Kenzo; Yamamoto, K; Yamamoto; Gris, Katsiaryna V; Gris, KV; Gris; Sotelo Fonseca, Jesús E; Sotelo Fonseca, JE; Sotelo Fonseca; Gharagozloo, Marjan; Gharagozloo, M; Gharagozloo; Mahmoud, Shaimaa; Mahmoud, S; Mahmoud; Simard, Camille; Simard, C; Simard; Houle-Martel, Daphné; Houle-Martel, D; Houle-Martel; Cloutier, Theodore; Cloutier, T; Cloutier; Gris, Pavel; Gris, P; Gris; Gris, Denis; Gris, D; Gris	Front Behav Neurosci
30048774	Quantitative proteomics reveals proteins involved in the progression from non-cancerous lesions to gastric cancer.	Gastric cancer is one of the most aggressive malignancies affecting humankind. With almost a million cases globally, it sits in fifth position in terms of incidence, and third in terms of mortality. The progression of this disease is slow, with prolonged and sequential precancerous stages including chronic gastritis, intestinal metaplasia, dysplasia, and finally gastric cancer. Here we used the iTRAQ approach combined with high-resolution mass spectrometry analysis to describe the spectrum of the gastric cancer cascade. Biopsies from three stages: chronic gastritis, intestinal metaplasia, and gastric adenocarcinoma, were selected for analysis by quantitative proteomics. We identified and reported quantitative data for 3914 different proteins quantified with high confidence, uncovering pathways and processes dysregulated between the different stages. Intestinal metaplasia is characterized by the down-regulation of ribosomal proteins, with overexpression of cell survival proteins such as GSTP1 and EPCAM. The transformation to gastric cancer involves overexpression of the DNA replication and the spliceosome pathways. The impairment of mitochondrial pathways was correlated with down-regulation of SIRT3 and SIRT5, and overexpression of enzymes supporting the glycolytic phenotype, such as HK3 and PCK2. Several proteins found dysregulated during the progression of gastric cancer have potential to be used as specific biomarkers and/or therapeutic targets.	2018 08	Fernández-Coto, Diana Lashidua; Fernández-Coto, DL; Fernández-Coto; Gil, Jeovanis; Gil, J; Gil; Hernández, Angélica; Hernández, A; Hernández; Herrera-Goepfert, Roberto; Herrera-Goepfert, R; Herrera-Goepfert; Castro-Romero, Ivone; Castro-Romero, I; Castro-Romero; Hernández-Márquez, Eva; Hernández-Márquez, E; Hernández-Márquez; Arenas-Linares, Ana Silvia; Arenas-Linares, AS; Arenas-Linares; Calderon-Sosa, Valia Tletzalli; Calderon-Sosa, VT; Calderon-Sosa; Sanchez-Aleman, Miguel Ángel; Sanchez-Aleman, MÁ; Sanchez-Aleman; Mendez-Tenorio, Alfonso; Mendez-Tenorio, A; Mendez-Tenorio; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Ayala, Guadalupe; Ayala, G; Ayala	J Proteomics
30186248	Phylogenomic Classification and the Evolution of Clonal Complex 5 Methicillin-Resistant <i>Staphylococcus aureus</i> in the Western Hemisphere.	Clonal complex 5 methicillin-resistant <i>Staphylococcus aureus</i> (CC5-MRSA) includes multiple prevalent clones that cause hospital-associated infections in the Western Hemisphere. Here, we present a phylogenomic study of these MRSA to reveal their phylogeny, spatial and temporal population structure, and the evolution of selected traits. We studied 598 genome sequences, including 409 newly generated sequences, from 11 countries in Central, North, and South America, and references from Asia and Europe. An early-branching CC5-Basal clade is well-dispersed geographically, is methicillin-susceptible and MRSA predominantly of ST5-IV such as the USA800 clone, and includes separate subclades for avian and porcine strains. In the early 1970s and early 1960s, respectively, two clades appeared that subsequently underwent major expansions in the Western Hemisphere: a CC5-I clade in South America and a CC5-II clade largely in Central and North America. The CC5-I clade includes the ST5-I Chilean/Cordobes clone, and the ST228-I South German clone as an early offshoot, but is distinct from other ST5-I clones from Europe that nest within CC5-Basal. The CC5-II clade includes divergent strains of the ST5-II USA100 clone, various other clones, and most known vancomycin-resistant strains of <i>S. aureus</i>, but is distinct from ST5-II strain N315 from Japan that nests within CC5-Basal. The recombination rate of CC5 was much lower than has been reported for other <i>S. aureus</i> genetic backgrounds, which indicates that recurrence of vancomycin resistance in CC5 is not likely due to an enhanced promiscuity. An increased number of antibiotic resistances and decreased number of toxins with distance from the CC5 tree root were observed. Of note, the expansions of the CC5-I and CC5-II clades in the Western Hemisphere were preceded by convergent gains of resistance to fluoroquinolone, macrolide, and lincosamide antibiotics, and convergent losses of the staphylococcal enterotoxin p (<i>sep</i>) gene from the immune evasion gene cluster of phage ϕSa3. Unique losses of surface proteins were also noted for these two clades. In summary, our study has determined the relationships of different clades and clones of CC5 and has revealed genomic changes for increased antibiotic resistance and decreased virulence associated with the expansions of these MRSA in the Western Hemisphere.	2018	Challagundla, Lavanya; Challagundla, L; Challagundla; Reyes, Jinnethe; Reyes, J; Reyes; Rafiqullah, Iftekhar; Rafiqullah, I; Rafiqullah; Sordelli, Daniel O; Sordelli, DO; Sordelli; Echaniz-Aviles, Gabriela; Echaniz-Aviles, G; Echaniz-Aviles; Velazquez-Meza, Maria E; Velazquez-Meza, ME; Velazquez-Meza; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Fittipaldi, Nahuel; Fittipaldi, N; Fittipaldi; Feldgarden, Michael; Feldgarden, M; Feldgarden; Chapman, Sinéad B; Chapman, SB; Chapman; Calderwood, Michael S; Calderwood, MS; Calderwood; Carvajal, Lina P; Carvajal, LP; Carvajal; Rincon, Sandra; Rincon, S; Rincon; Hanson, Blake; Hanson, B; Hanson; Planet, Paul J; Planet, PJ; Planet; Arias, Cesar A; Arias, CA; Arias; Diaz, Lorena; Diaz, L; Diaz; Robinson, D Ashley; Robinson, DA; Robinson	Front Microbiol
30115066	A unified resource for transcriptional regulation in Escherichia coli K-12 incorporating high-throughput-generated binding data into RegulonDB version 10.0.	Our understanding of the regulation of gene expression has benefited from the availability of high-throughput technologies that interrogate the whole genome for the binding of specific transcription factors and gene expression profiles. In the case of widely used model organisms, such as Escherichia coli K-12, the new knowledge gained from these approaches needs to be integrated with the legacy of accumulated knowledge from genetic and molecular biology experiments conducted in the pre-genomic era in order to attain the deepest level of understanding possible based on the available data.	2018 08	Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Sánchez-Pérez, Mishael; Sánchez-Pérez, M; Sánchez-Pérez; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Velázquez-Ramírez, David A; Velázquez-Ramírez, DA; Velázquez-Ramírez; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Tierrafría, Víctor H; Tierrafría, VH; Tierrafría; Busby, Stephen J W; Busby, SJW; Busby; Aquino, Patricia; Aquino, P; Aquino; Fang, Xin; Fang, X; Fang; Palsson, Bernhard O; Palsson, BO; Palsson; Galagan, James E; Galagan, JE; Galagan; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	BMC Biol
30147704	The MicroRNA319d/TCP10 Node Regulates the Common Bean - Rhizobia Nitrogen-Fixing Symbiosis.	Micro-RNAs from legume plants are emerging as relevant regulators of the rhizobia nitrogen-fixing symbiosis. In this work we functionally characterized the role of the node conformed by micro-RNA319 (miR319) - TEOSINTE BRANCHED/CYCLOIDEA/PCF (TCP) transcription factor in the common bean (<i>Phaseolus vulgaris</i>) - <i>Rhizobium tropici</i> symbiosis. The miR319d, one of nine miR319 isoforms from common bean, was highly expressed in root and nodules from inoculated plants as compared to roots from fertilized plants. The miR319d targets <i>TCP10</i> (Phvul.005G067950), identified by degradome analysis, whose expression showed a negative correlation with miR319d expression. The phenotypic analysis of <i>R. tropici</i>-inoculated composite plants with transgenic roots/nodules overexpressing or silencing the function of miR319d demonstrated the relevant role of the miR319d/TCP10 node in the common bean rhizobia symbiosis. Increased miR319d resulted in reduced root length/width ratio, increased rhizobial infection evidenced by more deformed root hairs and infection threads, and decreased nodule formation and nitrogenase activity per plant. In addition, these plants with lower TCP10 levels showed decreased expression level of the jasmonic acid (JA) biosynthetic gene: <i>LOX2.</i> The transcription of <i>LOX2</i> by TCPs has been demonstrated for Arabidopsis and in several plants <i>LOX2</i> level and JA content have been associate with TCP levels. On this basis, we propose that in roots/nodules of inoculated common bean plants TCP10 could be the transcriptional regulator of <i>LOX2</i> and the miR319d/TCP10 node could affect nodulation through JA signaling. However, given the complexity of nodulation, the participation of other signaling pathways in the phenotypes observed cannot be ruled out.	2018	Martín-Rodríguez, José Á; Martín-Rodríguez, JÁ; Martín-Rodríguez; Leija, Alfonso; Leija, A; Leija; Formey, Damien; Formey, D; Formey; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	Front Plant Sci
30140262	Nitrogen Fixation in Cereals.	Cereals such as maize, rice, wheat and sorghum are the most important crops for human nutrition. Like other plants, cereals associate with diverse bacteria (including nitrogen-fixing bacteria called diazotrophs) and fungi. As large amounts of chemical fertilizers are used in cereals, it has always been desirable to promote biological nitrogen fixation in such crops. The quest for nitrogen fixation in cereals started long ago with the isolation of nitrogen-fixing bacteria from different plants. The sources of diazotrophs in cereals may be seeds, soils, and even irrigation water and diazotrophs have been found on roots or as endophytes. Recently, culture-independent molecular approaches have revealed that some rhizobia are found in cereal plants and that bacterial nitrogenase genes are expressed in plants. Since the levels of nitrogen-fixation attained with nitrogen-fixing bacteria in cereals are not high enough to support the plant's needs and never as good as those obtained with chemical fertilizers or with rhizobium in symbiosis with legumes, it has been the aim of different studies to increase nitrogen-fixation in cereals. In many cases, these efforts have not been successful. However, new diazotroph mutants with enhanced capabilities to excrete ammonium are being successfully used to promote plant growth as commensal bacteria. In addition, there are ambitious projects supported by different funding agencies that are trying to genetically modify maize and other cereals to enhance diazotroph colonization or to fix nitrogen or to form nodules with nitrogen-fixing symbiotic rhizobia.	2018	Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; López-López, Aline; López-López, A; López-López; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Reyes-Hernández, Blanca Jazmín; Reyes-Hernández, BJ; Reyes-Hernández; Martínez-Romero, Julio C; Martínez-Romero, JC; Martínez-Romero; Reddy, Pallavolu M; Reddy, PM; Reddy; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Front Microbiol
29961811	Detection of VBNC Vibrio cholerae by RT-Real Time PCR based on differential gene expression analysis.	The recognition of the viable but non-culturable (VBNC) state of pathogenic bacteria has brought with it many questions to answer related to the need to detect and quantify viable bacteria in the environment in an accurate way. To assess viability of Vibrio cholerae, we developed a RT-Real Time PCR technique based on differential expression analysis from mRNA deep sequencing data. We compared two induction conditions to achieve the VBNC state: a bacterial suspension induced by artificial seawater at 4°C, and the addition of 3',5'-cyclic diguanylic acid. The evaluation of the up-regulated genes in the induced bacterial samples was compared with a fresh culture in the mid-exponential phase. The data analysis was performed with the NOISeq R-package and revealed 17 up-regulated genes for induction condition I and 22 up-regulated genes for induction condition II. Only one region was found to be up-regulated for both induction conditions. The VCA0656 gene related to the aminoimidazole riboside kinase protein was detected as the most up-regulated region and used as a genetic marker to precisely detect the VBNC state in combination with the RT-Real Time PCR technique. This approach describes a novel method to differentiate the VBNC state of V. cholerae in water samples.	2018 08	Casasola-Rodríguez, Beatriz; Casasola-Rodríguez, B; Casasola-Rodríguez; Ruiz-Palacios, Guillermo M; Ruiz-Palacios, GM; Ruiz-Palacios; Pilar, Ramos-Cervantes; Pilar, RC; Pilar; Losano, Luis; Losano, L; Losano; Ignacio, Monje-Ramírez; Ignacio, MR; Ignacio; Orta de Velásquez, María Teresa; Orta de Velásquez, MT; Orta de Velásquez	FEMS Microbiol Lett
30065716	Compounds Released by the Biocontrol Yeast <i>Hanseniaspora opuntiae</i> Protect Plants Against <i>Corynespora cassiicola</i> and <i>Botrytis cinerea</i>.	Plant diseases induced by fungi are among the most important limiting factors during pre- and post-harvest food production. For decades, synthetic chemical fungicides have been used to control these diseases, however, increase on worldwide regulatory policies and the demand to reduce their application, have led to searching for new ecofriendly alternatives such as the biostimulants. The commercial application of yeasts as biocontrol agents, has shown low efficacy compared to synthetic fungicides, mostly due to the limited knowledge of the molecular mechanisms of yeast-induced responses. To date, only two genome-wide transcriptomic analyses have characterized the mode of action of biocontrols using the plant model <i>Arabidopsis thaliana</i>, missing, in our point of view, all its molecular and genomic potential. Here we describe that compounds released by the biocontrol yeast <i>Hanseniaspora opuntiae</i> (HoFs) can protect <i>Glycine max</i> and <i>Arabidopsis thaliana</i> plants against the broad host-range necrotrophic fungi <i>Corynespora cassiicola</i> and <i>Botrytis cinerea</i>. We show that HoFs have a long-lasting, dose-dependent local, and systemic effect against <i>Botrytis cinerea</i>. Additionally, we performed a genome-wide transcriptomic analysis to identify genes differentially expressed after application of HoFs in <i>Arabidopsis thaliana</i>. Our work provides novel and valuable information that can help researchers to improve HoFs efficacy in order for it to become an ecofriendly alternative to synthetic fungicides.	2018	Ferreira-Saab, Mariana; Ferreira-Saab, M; Ferreira-Saab; Formey, Damien; Formey, D; Formey; Torres, Martha; Torres, M; Torres; Aragón, Wendy; Aragón, W; Aragón; Padilla, Emir A; Padilla, EA; Padilla; Tromas, Alexandre; Tromas, A; Tromas; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Schwan-Estrada, Kátia R F; Schwan-Estrada, KRF; Schwan-Estrada; Serrano, Mario; Serrano, M; Serrano	Front Microbiol
29886516	Biotransformation of benzo[a]pyrene by the thermophilic bacterium Bacillus licheniformis M2-7.	Benzo[a]pyrene (BaP) is recognized as a potentially carcinogenic and mutagenic hydrocarbon, and thus, its removal from the environment is a priority. The use of thermophilic bacteria capable of biodegrading or biotransforming this compound to less toxic forms has been explored in recent decades, since it provides advantages compared to mesophilic organisms. This study assessed the biotransformation of BaP by the thermophilic bacterium Bacillus licheniformis M2-7. Our analysis of the biotransformation process mediated by strain M2-7 on BaP shows that it begins during the first 3 h of culture. The gas chromatogram of the compound produced shows a peak with a retention time of 17.38 min, and the mass spectra shows an approximate molecular ion of m/z 167, which coincides with the molecular weight of the chemical formula C<sub>6</sub>H<sub>4</sub>(COOH)<sub>2</sub>, confirming a chemical structure corresponding to phthalic acid. Catechol 2,3-dioxygenase (C23O) enzyme activity was detected in minimal saline medium supplemented with BaP (0.33 U mg<sup>-1</sup> of protein). This finding suggests that B. licheniformis M2-7 uses the meta pathway for biodegrading BaP using the enzyme C23O, thereby generating phthalic acid as an intermediate.	2018 Jun	Guevara-Luna, Joseph; Guevara-Luna, J; Guevara-Luna; Alvarez-Fitz, Patricia; Alvarez-Fitz, P; Alvarez-Fitz; Ríos-Leal, Elvira; Ríos-Leal, E; Ríos-Leal; Acevedo-Quiroz, Macdiel; Acevedo-Quiroz, M; Acevedo-Quiroz; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Moreno-Godinez, Ma Elena; Moreno-Godinez, ME; Moreno-Godinez; Castellanos-Escamilla, Mildred; Castellanos-Escamilla, M; Castellanos-Escamilla; Toribio-Jiménez, Jeiry; Toribio-Jiménez, J; Toribio-Jiménez; Romero-Ramírez, Yanet; Romero-Ramírez, Y; Romero-Ramírez	World J Microbiol Biotechnol
29488306	2-Tridecanone impacts surface-associated bacterial behaviours and hinders plant-bacteria interactions.	Surface motility and biofilm formation are behaviours which enable bacteria to infect their hosts and are controlled by different chemical signals. In the plant symbiotic alpha-proteobacterium Sinorhizobium meliloti, the lack of long-chain fatty acyl-coenzyme A synthetase activity (FadD) leads to increased surface motility, defects in biofilm development and impaired root colonization. In this study, analyses of lipid extracts and volatiles revealed that a fadD mutant accumulates 2-tridecanone (2-TDC), a methylketone (MK) known as a natural insecticide. Application of pure 2-TDC to the wild-type strain phenocopies the free-living and symbiotic behaviours of the fadD mutant. Structural features of the MK determine its ability to promote S. meliloti surface translocation, which is mainly mediated by a flagella-independent motility. Transcriptomic analyses showed that 2-TDC induces differential expression of iron uptake, redox and stress-related genes. Interestingly, this MK also influences surface motility and impairs biofilm formation in plant and animal pathogenic bacteria. Moreover, 2-TDC not only hampers alfalfa nodulation but also the development of tomato bacterial speck disease. This work assigns a new role to 2-TDC as an infochemical that affects important bacterial traits and hampers plant-bacteria interactions by interfering with microbial colonization of plant tissues.	2018 06	López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Nogales, Joaquina; Nogales, J; Nogales; Pech-Canul, Ángel; Pech-Canul, Á; Pech-Canul; Calatrava-Morales, Nieves; Calatrava-Morales, N; Calatrava-Morales; Bernabéu-Roda, Lydia M; Bernabéu-Roda, LM; Bernabéu-Roda; Durán, Paloma; Durán, P; Durán; Cuéllar, Virginia; Cuéllar, V; Cuéllar; Olivares, José; Olivares, J; Olivares; Alvarez, Laura; Alvarez, L; Alvarez; Palenzuela-Bretones, Diana; Palenzuela-Bretones, D; Palenzuela-Bretones; Romero, Manuel; Romero, M; Romero; Heeb, Stephan; Heeb, S; Heeb; Cámara, Miguel; Cámara, M; Cámara; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Soto, María J; Soto, MJ; Soto	Environ Microbiol
29608946	Phytoestrogens and mycoestrogens interacting with breast cancer proteins.	Breast cancer is a highly heterogeneous disease influenced by the hormonal microenvironment and the most common malignancy in women worldwide. Some phytoestrogens and mycoestrogens have been epidemiologically linked as risk factors or protectors, however their mechanisms of action are complex and not fully understood. The aim of this study was to predict the potential of 36 natural xenoestrogens to interact with 189 breast cancer proteins using AutoDock Vina. In order to validate our protocol, an in silico docking pose and binding site determination was compared with the crystallographic structure and the power of prediction to distinguish between ligand and decoys was evaluated through a receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC) of the resultant docking affinities and in vitro data. The best affinity score was obtained for glyceollin III interacting with the sex hormone binding globulin (-11.9 Kcal/mol), a plasma steroid transport protein that regulates sex steroids bioavailability. Other natural xenoestrogens such as beta-carotene, chrysophanol 8-O-beta-d-glucopyranoside and glyceollin I, also presented good affinity for proteins related to this disease and the validation was successful. This study may help to prioritize compounds for toxicity tests or drug development from natural scaffolds, and to elucidate their mechanisms of action.	2018 06	Montes-Grajales, Diana; Montes-Grajales, D; Montes-Grajales; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Olivero-Verbel, Jesus; Olivero-Verbel, J; Olivero-Verbel	Steroids
29857581	Protein Expression Profile of Twenty-Week-Old Diabetic db/db and Non-Diabetic Mice Livers: A Proteomic and Bioinformatic Analysis.	Type 2 diabetes mellitus is characterized by insulin resistance in the liver. Insulin is not only involved in carbohydrate metabolism, it also regulates protein synthesis. This work describes the expression of proteins in the liver of a diabetic mouse and identifies the metabolic pathways involved. Twenty-week-old diabetic db/db mice were hepatectomized, after which proteins were separated by 2D-Polyacrylamide Gel Electrophoresis (2D-PAGE). Spots varying in intensity were analyzed using mass spectrometry, and biological function was assigned by the Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery (DAVID) software. A differential expression of 26 proteins was identified; among these were arginase-1, pyruvate carboxylase, peroxiredoxin-1, regucalcin, and sorbitol dehydrogenase. Bioinformatics analysis indicated that many of these proteins are mitochondrial and participate in metabolic pathways, such as the citrate cycle, the fructose and mannose metabolism, and glycolysis or gluconeogenesis. In addition, these proteins are related to oxidation⁻reduction reactions and molecular function of vitamin binding and amino acid metabolism. In conclusion, the proteomic profile of the liver of diabetic mouse db/db exhibited mainly alterations in the metabolism of carbohydrates and nitrogen. These differences illustrate the heterogeneity of diabetes in its different stages and under different conditions and highlights the need to improve treatments for this disease.	2018 06	Guzmán-Flores, Juan Manuel; Guzmán-Flores, JM; Guzmán-Flores; Flores-Pérez, Elsa Cristina; Flores-Pérez, EC; Flores-Pérez; Hernández-Ortiz, Magdalena; Hernández-Ortiz, M; Hernández-Ortiz; Vargas-Ortiz, Katya; Vargas-Ortiz, K; Vargas-Ortiz; Ramírez-Emiliano, Joel; Ramírez-Emiliano, J; Ramírez-Emiliano; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Pérez-Vázquez, Victoriano; Pérez-Vázquez, V; Pérez-Vázquez	Biomolecules
29280343	The ropAe gene encodes a porin-like protein involved in copper transit in Rhizobium etli CFN42.	Copper (Cu) is an essential micronutrient for all aerobic forms of life. Its oxidation states (Cu<sup>+</sup> /Cu<sup>2+</sup> ) make this metal an important cofactor of enzymes catalyzing redox reactions in essential biological processes. In gram-negative bacteria, Cu uptake is an unexplored component of a finely regulated trafficking network, mediated by protein-protein interactions that deliver Cu to target proteins and efflux surplus metal to avoid toxicity. Rhizobium etliCFN42 is a facultative symbiotic diazotroph that must ensure its appropriate Cu supply for living either free in the soil or as an intracellular symbiont of leguminous plants. In crop fields, rhizobia have to contend with copper-based fungicides. A detailed deletion analysis of the pRet42e (505 kb) plasmid from an R. etli mutant with enhanced CuCl<sub>2</sub> tolerance led us to the identification of the ropAe gene, predicted to encode an outer membrane protein (OMP) with a β-barrel channel structure that may be involved in Cu transport. In support of this hypothesis, the functional characterization of ropAe revealed that: (I) gene disruption increased copper tolerance of the mutant, and its complementation with the wild-type gene restored its wild-type copper sensitivity; (II) the ropAe gene maintains a low basal transcription level in copper overload, but is upregulated when copper is scarce; (III) disruption of ropAe in an actP (copA) mutant background, defective in copper efflux, partially reduced its copper sensitivity phenotype. Finally, BLASTP comparisons and a maximum likelihood phylogenetic analysis highlight the diversification of four RopA paralogs in members of the Rhizobiaceae family. Orthologs of RopAe are highly conserved in the Rhizobiales order, poorly conserved in other alpha proteobacteria and phylogenetically unrelated to characterized porins involved in Cu or Mn uptake.	2018 06	González-Sánchez, Antonio; González-Sánchez, A; González-Sánchez; Cubillas, Ciro A; Cubillas, CA; Cubillas; Miranda, Fabiola; Miranda, F; Miranda; Dávalos, Araceli; Dávalos, A; Dávalos; García-de Los Santos, Alejandro; García-de Los Santos, A; García-de Los Santos	Microbiologyopen
29735690	Precise detection of de novo single nucleotide variants in human genomes.	The precise determination of de novo genetic variants has enormous implications across different fields of biology and medicine, particularly personalized medicine. Currently, de novo variations are identified by mapping sample reads from a parent-offspring trio to a reference genome, allowing for a certain degree of differences. While widely used, this approach often introduces false-positive (FP) results due to misaligned reads and mischaracterized sequencing errors. In a previous study, we developed an alternative approach to accurately identify single nucleotide variants (SNVs) using only perfect matches. However, this approach could be applied only to haploid regions of the genome and was computationally intensive. In this study, we present a unique approach, coverage-based single nucleotide variant identification (COBASI), which allows the exploration of the entire genome using second-generation short sequence reads without extensive computing requirements. COBASI identifies SNVs using changes in coverage of exactly matching unique substrings, and is particularly suited for pinpointing de novo SNVs. Unlike other approaches that require population frequencies across hundreds of samples to filter out any methodological biases, COBASI can be applied to detect de novo SNVs within isolated families. We demonstrate this capability through extensive simulation studies and by studying a parent-offspring trio we sequenced using short reads. Experimental validation of all 58 candidate de novo SNVs and a selection of non-de novo SNVs found in the trio confirmed zero FP calls. COBASI is available as open source at https://github.com/Laura-Gomez/COBASI for any researcher to use.	2018 05	Gómez-Romero, Laura; Gómez-Romero, L; Gómez-Romero; Palacios-Flores, Kim; Palacios-Flores, K; Palacios-Flores; Reyes, José; Reyes, J; Reyes; García, Delfino; García, D; García; Boege, Margareta; Boege, M; Boege; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; Flores, Margarita; Flores, M; Flores; Schatz, Michael C; Schatz, MC; Schatz; Palacios, Rafael; Palacios, R; Palacios	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
29867794	Genome-Wide Comparative Functional Analyses Reveal Adaptations of <i>Salmonella</i> sv. Newport to a Plant Colonization Lifestyle.	Outbreaks of salmonellosis linked to the consumption of vegetables have been disproportionately associated with strains of serovar Newport. We tested the hypothesis that strains of sv. Newport have evolved unique adaptations to persistence in plants that are not shared by strains of other <i>Salmonella</i> serovars. We used a genome-wide mutant screen to compare growth in tomato fruit of a sv. Newport strain from an outbreak traced to tomatoes, and a sv. Typhimurium strain from animals. Most genes in the sv. Newport strain that were selected during persistence in tomatoes were shared with, and similarly selected in, the sv. Typhimurium strain. Many of their functions are linked to central metabolism, including amino acid biosynthetic pathways, iron acquisition, and maintenance of cell structure. One exception was a greater need for the core genes involved in purine metabolism in sv. Typhimurium than in sv. Newport. We discovered a gene, <i>papA</i>, that was unique to sv. Newport and contributed to the strain's fitness in tomatoes. The <i>papA</i> gene was present in about 25% of sv. Newport Group III genomes and generally absent from other <i>Salmonella</i> genomes. Homologs of <i>papA</i> were detected in the genomes of <i>Pantoea, Dickeya</i>, and <i>Pectobacterium</i>, members of the Enterobacteriacea family that can colonize both plants and animals.	2018	de Moraes, Marcos H; de Moraes, MH; de Moraes; Soto, Emanuel Becerra; Soto, EB; Soto; Salas González, Isai; Salas González, I; Salas González; Desai, Prerak; Desai, P; Desai; Chu, Weiping; Chu, W; Chu; Porwollik, Steffen; Porwollik, S; Porwollik; McClelland, Michael; McClelland, M; McClelland; Teplitski, Max; Teplitski, M; Teplitski	Front Microbiol
29771928	ChIP-exo interrogation of Crp, DNA, and RNAP holoenzyme interactions.	Numerous in vitro studies have yielded a refined picture of the structural and molecular associations between Cyclic-AMP receptor protein (Crp), the DNA motif, and RNA polymerase (RNAP) holoenzyme. In this study, high-resolution ChIP-exonuclease (ChIP-exo) was applied to study Crp binding in vivo and at genome-scale. Surprisingly, Crp was found to provide little to no protection of the DNA motif under activating conditions. Instead, Crp demonstrated binding patterns that closely resembled those generated by σ70. The binding patterns of both Crp and σ70 are indicative of RNAP holoenzyme DNA footprinting profiles associated with stages during transcription initiation that occur post-recruitment. This is marked by a pronounced advancement of the template strand footprint profile to the +20 position relative to the transcription start site and a multimodal distribution on the nontemplate strand. This trend was also observed in the familial transcription factor, Fnr, but full protection of the motif was seen in the repressor ArcA. Given the time-scale of ChIP studies and that the rate-limiting step in transcription initiation is typically post recruitment, we propose a hypothesis where Crp is absent from the DNA motif but remains associated with RNAP holoenzyme post-recruitment during transcription initiation. The release of Crp from the DNA motif may be a result of energetic changes that occur as RNAP holoenzyme traverses the various stable intermediates towards elongation complex formation.	2018	Latif, Haythem; Latif, H; Latif; Federowicz, Stephen; Federowicz, S; Federowicz; Ebrahim, Ali; Ebrahim, A; Ebrahim; Tarasova, Janna; Tarasova, J; Tarasova; Szubin, Richard; Szubin, R; Szubin; Utrilla, Jose; Utrilla, J; Utrilla; Zengler, Karsten; Zengler, K; Zengler; Palsson, Bernhard O; Palsson, BO; Palsson	PLoS One
29867787	The Genomic Basis of Intrinsic and Acquired Antibiotic Resistance in the Genus <i>Serratia</i>.	<i>Serratia marcescens</i>, a member of the <i>Enterobacteriaceae</i> family, was long thought to be a non-pathogenic bacterium prevalent in environmental habitats. Together with other members of this genus, it has emerged in recent years as an opportunistic nosocomial pathogen causing various types of infections. One important feature of pathogens belonging to this genus is their intrinsic and acquired resistance to a variety of antibiotic families, including β-lactam, aminoglycosides, quinolones and polypeptide antibiotics. The aim of this study was to elucidate which genes participate in the intrinsic and acquired antibiotic resistance of this genus in order to determine the <i>Serratia</i> genus resistome. We performed phylogenomic and comparative genomic analyses using 32 <i>Serratia</i> spp. genomes deposited in the NCBI GenBank from strains isolated from different ecological niches and different lifestyles. <i>S. marcescens</i> strain SmUNAM836, which was previously isolated from a Mexican adult with obstructive pulmonary disease, was included in this study. The results show that most of the antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) were found on the chromosome, and to a lesser degree, on plasmids and transposons acquired through horizontal gene transfer. Four strains contained the <i>gyrA</i> point mutation in codon Ser83 that confers quinolone resistance. Pathogenic and environmental isolates presented a high number of ARGs, especially genes associated with efflux systems. Pathogenic strains, specifically nosocomial strains, presented more acquired resistance genes than environmental isolates. We may conclude that the environment provides a natural reservoir for antibiotic resistance, which has been underestimated in the medical field.	2018	Sandner-Miranda, Luisa; Sandner-Miranda, L; Sandner-Miranda; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Cravioto, Alejandro; Cravioto, A; Cravioto; Morales-Espinosa, Rosario; Morales-Espinosa, R; Morales-Espinosa	Front Microbiol
29452714	Genetic diversity and structure of Rhizobium leguminosarum populations associated with clover plants are influenced by local environmental variables.	The identification and conservation of indigenous rhizobia associated with legume plants and their application as biofertilizers is becoming an agricultural worldwide priority. However, little is known about the genetic diversity and phylogeny of rhizobia in Romania. In the present study, the genetic diversity and population composition of Rhizobium leguminosarum symbiovar trifolii isolates from 12 clover plants populations located across two regions in Romania were analyzed. Red clover isolates were phenotypically evaluated and genotyped by sequencing 16S rRNA gene, 16S-23S intergenic spacer, three chromosomal genes (atpD, glnII and recA) and two plasmid genes (nifH and nodA). Multilocus sequence typing (MLST) analysis revealed that red clover plants are nodulated by a wide genetic diversity of R. leguminosarum symbiovar trifolii sequence types (STs), highly similar to the ones previously found in white clover. Rhizobial genetic variation was found mainly within the two clover populations for both chromosomal and plasmid types. Many STs appear to be unique for this region and the genetic composition of rhizobia differs significantly among the clover populations. Furthermore, our results showed that both soil pH and altitude contributed to plasmid sequence type composition while differences in chromosomal composition were affected by the altitude and were strongly correlated with distance.	2018 May	Stefan, Andrei; Stefan, A; Stefan; Van Cauwenberghe, Jannick; Van Cauwenberghe, J; Van Cauwenberghe; Rosu, Craita M; Rosu, CM; Rosu; Stedel, Catalina; Stedel, C; Stedel; Labrou, Nikolaos E; Labrou, NE; Labrou; Flemetakis, Emmanouil; Flemetakis, E; Flemetakis; Efrose, Rodica C; Efrose, RC; Efrose	Syst Appl Microbiol
29765358	GET_PHYLOMARKERS, a Software Package to Select Optimal Orthologous Clusters for Phylogenomics and Inferring Pan-Genome Phylogenies, Used for a Critical Geno-Taxonomic Revision of the Genus <i>Stenotrophomonas</i>.	The massive accumulation of genome-sequences in public databases promoted the proliferation of genome-level phylogenetic analyses in many areas of biological research. However, due to diverse evolutionary and genetic processes, many loci have undesirable properties for phylogenetic reconstruction. These, if undetected, can result in erroneous or biased estimates, particularly when estimating species trees from concatenated datasets. To deal with these problems, we developed GET_PHYLOMARKERS, a pipeline designed to identify high-quality markers to estimate robust genome phylogenies from the orthologous clusters, or the pan-genome matrix (PGM), computed by GET_HOMOLOGUES. In the first context, a set of sequential filters are applied to exclude recombinant alignments and those producing anomalous or poorly resolved trees. Multiple sequence alignments and maximum likelihood (ML) phylogenies are computed in parallel on multi-core computers. A ML species tree is estimated from the concatenated set of top-ranking alignments at the DNA or protein levels, using either FastTree or IQ-TREE (IQT). The latter is used by default due to its superior performance revealed in an extensive benchmark analysis. In addition, parsimony and ML phylogenies can be estimated from the PGM. We demonstrate the practical utility of the software by analyzing 170 <i>Stenotrophomonas</i> genome sequences available in RefSeq and 10 new complete genomes of Mexican environmental <i>S. maltophilia</i> complex (Smc) isolates reported herein. A combination of core-genome and PGM analyses was used to revise the molecular systematics of the genus. An unsupervised learning approach that uses a goodness of clustering statistic identified 20 groups within the Smc at a core-genome average nucleotide identity (cgANIb) of 95.9% that are perfectly consistent with strongly supported clades on the core- and pan-genome trees. In addition, we identified 16 misclassified RefSeq genome sequences, 14 of them labeled as <i>S. maltophilia</i>, demonstrating the broad utility of the software for phylogenomics and geno-taxonomic studies. The code, a detailed manual and tutorials are freely available for Linux/UNIX servers under the GNU GPLv3 license at https://github.com/vinuesa/get_phylomarkers. A docker image bundling GET_PHYLOMARKERS with GET_HOMOLOGUES is available at https://hub.docker.com/r/csicunam/get_homologues/, which can be easily run on any platform.	2018	Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Ochoa-Sánchez, Luz E; Ochoa-Sánchez, LE; Ochoa-Sánchez; Contreras-Moreira, Bruno; Contreras-Moreira, B; Contreras-Moreira	Front Microbiol
29720528	Invasive Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus USA500 Strains from the U.S. Emerging Infections Program Constitute Three Geographically Distinct Lineages.	USA500 isolates are clonal complex 8 (CC8) <i>Staphylococcus aureus</i> strains closely related to the prominent community- and hospital-associated USA300 group. Despite being relatively understudied, USA500 strains cause a significant burden of disease and are the third most common methicillin-resistant <i>S. aureus</i> (MRSA) strains identified in the U.S. Emerging Infections Program (EIP) invasive <i>S. aureus</i> surveillance. To better understand the genetic relationships of the strains, we sequenced the genomes of 539 USA500 MRSA isolates from sterile site infections collected through the EIP between 2005 and 2013 in the United States. USA500 isolates fell into three major clades principally separated by their distribution across different U.S. regions. Clade C1 strains, found principally in the Northeast, were associated with multiple IS<i>256</i> insertion elements in their genomes and higher levels of antibiotic resistance. C2 was associated with Southern states, and E1 was associated with Western states. C1 and C2 strains all shared a frameshift in the gene encoding AdsA surface-attached surface protein. We propose that the term "USA500" should be used for CC8 strains sharing a recent common ancestor with the C1, C2, and E1 strains but not in the USA300 group.<b>IMPORTANCE</b> In this work, we have removed some of the confusion surrounding the use of the name "USA500," placed USA500 strains in the context of the CC8 group, and developed a strategy for assignment to subclades based on genome sequence. Our new phylogeny of USA300/USA500 will be a reference point for understanding the genetic adaptations that have allowed multiple highly virulent clonal strains to emerge from within CC8 over the past 50 years.	2018 May-Jun	Frisch, M B; Frisch, MB; Frisch; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Petit, R A; Petit, RA; Petit; Farley, M M; Farley, MM; Farley; Ray, S M; Ray, SM; Ray; Albrecht, V S; Albrecht, VS; Albrecht; Limbago, B M; Limbago, BM; Limbago; Hernandez, J; Hernandez, J; Hernandez; See, I; See, I; See; Satola, S W; Satola, SW; Satola; Read, T D; Read, TD; Read	mSphere
29632354	Multicopy plasmids allow bacteria to escape from fitness trade-offs during evolutionary innovation.	Understanding the mechanisms governing innovation is a central element of evolutionary theory. Novel traits usually arise through mutations in existing genes, but trade-offs between new and ancestral protein functions are pervasive and constrain the evolution of innovation. Classical models posit that evolutionary innovation circumvents the constraints imposed by trade-offs through genetic amplifications, which provide functional redundancy. Bacterial multicopy plasmids provide a paradigmatic example of genetic amplification, yet their role in evolutionary innovation remains largely unexplored. Here, we reconstructed the evolution of a new trait encoded in a multicopy plasmid using TEM-1 β-lactamase as a model system. Through a combination of theory and experimentation, we show that multicopy plasmids promote the coexistence of ancestral and novel traits for dozens of generations, allowing bacteria to escape the evolutionary constraints imposed by trade-offs. Our results suggest that multicopy plasmids are excellent platforms for evolutionary innovation, contributing to explain their extreme abundance in bacteria.	2018 05	Rodriguez-Beltran, Jeronimo; Rodriguez-Beltran, J; Rodriguez-Beltran; Hernandez-Beltran, J Carlos R; Hernandez-Beltran, JCR; Hernandez-Beltran; DelaFuente, Javier; DelaFuente, J; DelaFuente; Escudero, Jose A; Escudero, JA; Escudero; Fuentes-Hernandez, Ayari; Fuentes-Hernandez, A; Fuentes-Hernandez; MacLean, R Craig; MacLean, RC; MacLean; Peña-Miller, Rafael; Peña-Miller, R; Peña-Miller; San Millan, Alvaro; San Millan, A; San Millan	Nat Ecol Evol
29760688	Dissecting the Acid Stress Response of <i>Rhizobium tropici</i> CIAT 899.	<i>Rhizobium tropici</i> CIAT899 is a nodule-forming α-proteobacterium displaying intrinsic resistance to several abiotic stress conditions such as low pH and high temperatures, which are common in tropical environments. It is a good competitor for <i>Phaseolus vulgaris</i> (common bean) nodule occupancy at low pH values, however little is known about the genetic and physiological basis of the tolerance to acidic conditions. To identify genes in <i>R. tropici</i> involved in pH stress response we combined two different approaches: (1) A Tn<i>5</i> mutant library of <i>R. tropici</i> CIAT899 was screened and 26 acid-sensitive mutants were identified. For 17 of these mutants, the transposon insertion sites could be identified. (2) We also studied the transcriptomes of cells grown under different pH conditions using RNA-Seq. RNA was extracted from cells grown for several generations in minimal medium at 6.8 or 4.5 (adapted cells). In addition, we acid-shocked cells pre-grown at pH 6.8 for 45 min at pH 4.5. Of the 6,289 protein-coding genes annotated in the genome of <i>R. tropici</i> CIAT 899, 383 were differentially expressed under acidic conditions (pH 4.5) vs. control condition (pH 6.8). Three hundred and fifty one genes were induced and 32 genes were repressed; only 11 genes were induced upon acid shock. The acid stress response of <i>R. tropici</i> CIAT899 is versatile: we found genes encoding response regulators and membrane transporters, enzymes involved in amino acid and carbohydrate metabolism and proton extrusion, in addition to several hypothetical genes. Our findings enhance our understanding of the core genes that are important during the acid stress response in <i>R. tropici</i>.	2018	Guerrero-Castro, Julio; Guerrero-Castro, J; Guerrero-Castro; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	Front Microbiol
29774096	GSTM3 and GSTP1: novel players driving tumor progression in cervical cancer.	The molecular processes and proteomic markers leading to tumor progression (TP) in cervical cancer (CC) are either unknown or only partially understood. TP affects metabolic and regulatory mechanisms that can be identified as proteomic changes. To identify which proteins are differentially expressed and to understand the mechanisms of cancer progression, we analyzed the dynamics of the tumor proteome in CC cell lines. This analysis revealed two proteins that are up-regulated during TP, GSTM3 and GSTP1. These proteins are involved in cell maintenance, cell survival and the cellular stress response via the NF-κB and MAP kinase pathways during TP. Furthermore, GSTM3 and GSTP1 knockdown showed that evasion of apoptosis was affected, and tumor proliferation was significantly reduced. Our data indicate the critical role of GST proteins in the regulation and progression of cervical cancer cells. Hence, we suggest GSTM3 and GSTP1 as novel biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets for treating cervical cancer.	2018 Apr	Checa-Rojas, Alberto; Checa-Rojas, A; Checa-Rojas; Delgadillo-Silva, Luis Fernando; Delgadillo-Silva, LF; Delgadillo-Silva; Velasco-Herrera, Martín Del Castillo; Velasco-Herrera, MDC; Velasco-Herrera; Andrade-Domínguez, Andrés; Andrade-Domínguez, A; Andrade-Domínguez; Gil, Jeovanis; Gil, J; Gil; Santillán, Orlando; Santillán, O; Santillán; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Toledo-Leyva, Alfredo; Toledo-Leyva, A; Toledo-Leyva; Ramírez-Torres, Alberto; Ramírez-Torres, A; Ramírez-Torres; Talamas-Rohana, Patricia; Talamas-Rohana, P; Talamas-Rohana; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara	Oncotarget
29459707	Hologenomic adaptations underlying the evolution of sanguivory in the common vampire bat.	Adaptation to specialized diets often requires modifications at both genomic and microbiome levels. We applied a hologenomic approach to the common vampire bat (Desmodus rotundus), one of the only three obligate blood-feeding (sanguivorous) mammals, to study the evolution of its complex dietary adaptation. Specifically, we assembled its high-quality reference genome (scaffold N50 = 26.9 Mb, contig N50 = 36.6 kb) and gut metagenome, and compared them against those of insectivorous, frugivorous and carnivorous bats. Our analyses showed a particular common vampire bat genomic landscape regarding integrated viral elements, a dietary and phylogenetic influence on gut microbiome taxonomic and functional profiles, and that both genetic elements harbour key traits related to the nutritional (for example, vitamin and lipid shortage) and non-nutritional (for example, nitrogen waste and osmotic homeostasis) challenges of sanguivory. These findings highlight the value of a holistic study of both the host and its microbiota when attempting to decipher adaptations underlying radical dietary lifestyles.	2018 04	Zepeda Mendoza, M Lisandra; Zepeda Mendoza, ML; Zepeda Mendoza; Xiong, Zijun; Xiong, Z; Xiong; Escalera-Zamudio, Marina; Escalera-Zamudio, M; Escalera-Zamudio; Runge, Anne Kathrine; Runge, AK; Runge; Thézé, Julien; Thézé, J; Thézé; Streicker, Daniel; Streicker, D; Streicker; Frank, Hannah K; Frank, HK; Frank; Loza-Rubio, Elizabeth; Loza-Rubio, E; Loza-Rubio; Liu, Shengmao; Liu, S; Liu; Ryder, Oliver A; Ryder, OA; Ryder; Samaniego Castruita, Jose Alfredo; Samaniego Castruita, JA; Samaniego Castruita; Katzourakis, Aris; Katzourakis, A; Katzourakis; Pacheco, George; Pacheco, G; Pacheco; Taboada, Blanca; Taboada, B; Taboada; Löber, Ulrike; Löber, U; Löber; Pybus, Oliver G; Pybus, OG; Pybus; Li, Yang; Li, Y; Li; Rojas-Anaya, Edith; Rojas-Anaya, E; Rojas-Anaya; Bohmann, Kristine; Bohmann, K; Bohmann; Carmona Baez, Aldo; Carmona Baez, A; Carmona Baez; Arias, Carlos F; Arias, CF; Arias; Liu, Shiping; Liu, S; Liu; Greenwood, Alex D; Greenwood, AD; Greenwood; Bertelsen, Mads F; Bertelsen, MF; Bertelsen; White, Nicole E; White, NE; White; Bunce, Michael; Bunce, M; Bunce; Zhang, Guojie; Zhang, G; Zhang; Sicheritz-Pontén, Thomas; Sicheritz-Pontén, T; Sicheritz-Pontén; Gilbert, M P Thomas; Gilbert, MPT; Gilbert	Nat Ecol Evol
29619919	Polyamines are required for normal growth in Sinorhizobium meliloti.	Polyamines (PAs) are ubiquitous polycations derived from basic l-amino acids whose physiological roles are still being defined. Their biosynthesis and functions in nitrogen-fixing rhizobia such as Sinorhizobium meliloti have not been extensively investigated. Thin layer chromatographic and mass spectrometric analyses showed that S. meliloti Rm8530 produces the PAs, putrescine (Put), spermidine (Spd) and homospermidine (HSpd), in their free forms and norspermidine (NSpd) in a form bound to macromolecules. The S. meliloti genome encodes two putative ornithine decarboxylases (ODC) for Put synthesis. Activity assays with the purified enzymes showed that ODC2 (SMc02983) decarboxylates both ornithine and lysine. ODC1 (SMa0680) decarboxylates only ornithine. An odc1 mutant was similar to the wild-type in ODC activity, PA production and growth. In comparison to the wild-type, an odc2 mutant had 45 % as much ODC activity and its growth rates were reduced by 42, 14 and 44 % under non-stress, salt stress or acid stress conditions, respectively. The odc2 mutant produced only trace levels of Put, Spd and HSpd. Wild-type phenotypes were restored when the mutant was grown in cultures supplemented with 1 mM Put or Spd or when the odc2 gene was introduced in trans. odc2 gene expression was increased under acid stress and reduced under salt stress and with exogenous Put or Spd. An odc1 odc2 double mutant had phenotypes similar to the odc2 mutant. These results indicate that ODC2 is the major enzyme for Put synthesis in S. meliloti and that PAs are required for normal growth in vitro.	2018 04	Becerra-Rivera, Victor A; Becerra-Rivera, VA; Becerra-Rivera; Bergström, Ed; Bergström, E; Bergström; Thomas-Oates, Jane; Thomas-Oates, J; Thomas-Oates; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn	Microbiology (Reading)
29567733	Draft Genome Sequences of Endophytic Isolates of Klebsiella variicola and Klebsiella pneumoniae Obtained from the Same Sugarcane Plant.	Endophytic <i>Klebsiella variicola</i> KvMx2 and <i>Klebsiella pneumoniae</i> KpMx1 isolates obtained from the same sugarcane stem were used for whole-genome sequencing. The genomes revealed clear differences in essential genes for plant growth, development, and detoxification, as well as nitrogen fixation, catalases, cellulases, and shared virulence factors described in the <i>K. pneumoniae</i> pathogen.	2018 Mar	Reyna-Flores, Fernando; Reyna-Flores, F; Reyna-Flores; Barrios-Camacho, Humberto; Barrios-Camacho, H; Barrios-Camacho; Dantán-González, Edgar; Dantán-González, E; Dantán-González; Ramírez-Trujillo, José Augusto; Ramírez-Trujillo, JA; Ramírez-Trujillo; Lozano Aguirre Beltrán, Luis Fernando; Lozano Aguirre Beltrán, LF; Lozano Aguirre Beltrán; Rodríguez-Medina, Nadia; Rodríguez-Medina, N; Rodríguez-Medina; Garza-Ramos, Ulises; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos; Suárez-Rodríguez, Ramón; Suárez-Rodríguez, R; Suárez-Rodríguez	Genome Announc
29519840	Complete Genome Sequence of the Symbiotic Strain Bradyrhizobium icense LMTR 13<sup>T</sup>, Isolated from Lima Bean (Phaseolus lunatus) in Peru.	The complete genome sequence of <i>Bradyrhizobium icense</i> LMTR 13<sup>T</sup>, a root nodule bacterium isolated from the legume <i>Phaseolus lunatus</i>, is reported here. The genome consists of a circular 8,322,773-bp chromosome which codes for a large and novel symbiotic island as well as genes putatively involved in soil and root colonization.	2018 Mar	Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Zúñiga-Dávila, Doris; Zúñiga-Dávila, D; Zúñiga-Dávila; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Genome Announc
29524395	Headgroup hydroxylation by OlsE occurs at the C4 position of ornithine lipid and is widespread in proteobacteria and bacteroidetes.	Amino acid-containing acyloxyacyl lipids are composed of a 3-hydroxy fatty acid amide-bound to the α-amino group of an amino acid. A second fatty acid is ester-linked to the 3-hydroxy group of the first fatty acid. Most commonly, ornithine is the headgroup of these lipids, but glycine, serineglycine, glutamine and lysine have also been described in bacteria. Ornithine lipids (OL) can be synthesized by about 50% of the sequenced bacterial species, and several covalent modifications of its basic structure have been described. The OL hydroxylase OlsE is widespread in Rhizobium and Agrobacterium species and is responsible for introducing a hydroxyl group at a hence unknown position within the ornithine headgroup causing the formation of the OL named S2. Using NMR on purified OL S2, we show that the OlsE-mediated hydroxylation takes place at the C-4 position of the ornithine headgroup. Furthermore, we identify a hydroxylase in the genome of Pseudopedobacter saltans, distantly related to OlsE from α-proteobacteria, able to hydroxylate the headgroup of both ornithine lipids and lysine lipids. A homology search with the amino acid sequence of this hydroxylase allows us to predict that OL headgroup hydroxylation is not restricted to a few α-proteobacteria, but is apparently also common in many genera belonging to the Cytophaga-Flavobacterium-Bacteroidetes (CFB) group of bacteria.	2018 07	Hölzl, Georg; Hölzl, G; Hölzl; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Vences-Guzmán, Miguel Angel; Vences-Guzmán, MA; Vences-Guzmán; Gisch, Nicolas; Gisch, N; Gisch	Chem Phys Lipids
29222443	Metabolic versatility of small archaea Micrarchaeota and Parvarchaeota.	Small acidophilic archaea belonging to Micrarchaeota and Parvarchaeota phyla are known to physically interact with some Thermoplasmatales members in nature. However, due to a lack of cultivation and limited genomes on hand, their biodiversity, metabolisms, and physiologies remain largely unresolved. Here, we obtained 39 genomes from acid mine drainage (AMD) and hot spring environments around the world. 16S rRNA gene based analyses revealed that Parvarchaeota were only detected in AMD and hot spring habitats, while Micrarchaeota were also detected in others including soil, peat, hypersaline mat, and freshwater, suggesting a considerable higher diversity and broader than expected habitat distribution for this phylum. Despite their small genomes (0.64-1.08 Mb), these archaea may contribute to carbon and nitrogen cycling by degrading multiple saccharides and proteins, and produce ATP via aerobic respiration and fermentation. Additionally, we identified several syntenic genes with homology to those involved in iron oxidation in six Parvarchaeota genomes, suggesting their potential role in iron cycling. However, both phyla lack biosynthetic pathways for amino acids and nucleotides, suggesting that they likely scavenge these biomolecules from the environment and/or other community members. Moreover, low-oxygen enrichments in laboratory confirmed our speculation that both phyla are microaerobic/anaerobic, based on several specific genes identified in them. Furthermore, phylogenetic analyses provide insights into the close evolutionary history of energy related functionalities between both phyla with Thermoplasmatales. These results expand our understanding of these elusive archaea by revealing their involvement in carbon, nitrogen, and iron cycling, and suggest their potential interactions with Thermoplasmatales on genomic scale.	2018 03	Chen, Lin-Xing; Chen, LX; Chen; Méndez-García, Celia; Méndez-García, C; Méndez-García; Dombrowski, Nina; Dombrowski, N; Dombrowski; Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis E; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Eloe-Fadrosh, Emiley A; Eloe-Fadrosh, EA; Eloe-Fadrosh; Fang, Bao-Zhu; Fang, BZ; Fang; Luo, Zhen-Hao; Luo, ZH; Luo; Tan, Sha; Tan, S; Tan; Zhi, Xiao-Yang; Zhi, XY; Zhi; Hua, Zheng-Shuang; Hua, ZS; Hua; Martinez-Romero, Esperanza; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Woyke, Tanja; Woyke, T; Woyke; Huang, Li-Nan; Huang, LN; Huang; Sánchez, Jesús; Sánchez, J; Sánchez; Peláez, Ana Isabel; Peláez, AI; Peláez; Ferrer, Manuel; Ferrer, M; Ferrer; Baker, Brett J; Baker, BJ; Baker; Shu, Wen-Sheng; Shu, WS; Shu	ISME J
29130376	The Cuticle Mutant eca2 Modifies Plant Defense Responses to Biotrophic and Necrotrophic Pathogens and Herbivory Insects.	We isolated previously several Arabidopsis thaliana mutants with constitutive expression of the early microbe-associated molecular pattern-induced gene ATL2, named eca (expresión constitutiva de ATL2). Here, we further explored the interaction of eca mutants with pest and pathogens. Of all eca mutants, eca2 was more resistant to a fungal pathogen (Botrytis cinerea) and a bacterial pathogen (Pseudomonas syringae) as well as to a generalist herbivorous insect (Spodoptera littoralis). Permeability of the cuticle is increased in eca2; chemical characterization shows that eca2 has a significant reduction of both cuticular wax and cutin. Additionally, we determined that eca2 did not display a similar compensatory transcriptional response, compared with a previously characterized cuticular mutant, and that resistance to B. cinerea is mediated by the priming of the early and late induced defense responses, including salicylic acid- and jasmonic acid-induced genes. These results suggest that ECA2-dependent responses are involved in the nonhost defense mechanism against biotrophic and necrotrophic pathogens and against a generalist insect by modulation and priming of innate immunity and late defense responses. Making eca2 an interesting model to characterize the molecular basis for plant defenses against different biotic interactions and to study the initial events that take place in the cuticle surface of the aerial organs.	2018 03	Blanc, Catherine; Blanc, C; Blanc; Coluccia, Fania; Coluccia, F; Coluccia; L'Haridon, Floriane; L'Haridon, F; L'Haridon; Torres, Martha; Torres, M; Torres; Ortiz-Berrocal, Marlene; Ortiz-Berrocal, M; Ortiz-Berrocal; Stahl, Elia; Stahl, E; Stahl; Reymond, Philippe; Reymond, P; Reymond; Schreiber, Lukas; Schreiber, L; Schreiber; Nawrath, Christiane; Nawrath, C; Nawrath; Métraux, Jean-Pierre; Métraux, JP; Métraux; Serrano, Mario; Serrano, M; Serrano	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
30040192	Using RegulonDB, the Escherichia coli K-12 Gene Regulatory Transcriptional Network Database.	In RegulonDB, for over 25 years, we have been gathering knowledge by manual curation from original scientific literature on the regulation of transcription initiation and genome organization in transcription units of the Escherichia coli K-12 genome. This unit describes six basic protocols that can serve as a guiding introduction to the main content of the current version (v9.4) of this electronic resource. These protocols include general navigation as well as searching for specific objects such as genes, gene products, transcription units, promoters, transcription factors, coexpression, and genetic sensory response units or GENSOR Units. In these protocols, the user will find an initial introduction to the concepts pertinent to the protocol, the content obtained when performing the given navigation, and the necessary resources for carrying out the protocol. This easy-to-follow presentation should help anyone interested in quickly seeing all that is currently offered in RegulonDB, including position weight matrices of transcription factors, coexpression values based on published microarrays, and the GENSOR Units unique to RegulonDB that offer regulatory mechanisms in the context of their signals and metabolic consequences. © 2018 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.	2018 03	Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; Bustamante, Víctor H; Bustamante, VH; Bustamante; Alquicira-Hernández, Kevin; Alquicira-Hernández, K; Alquicira-Hernández; García-Sotelo, Jair S; García-Sotelo, JS; García-Sotelo; García-Alonso, Delfino; García-Alonso, D; García-Alonso; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Curr Protoc Bioinformatics
29453341	Transcriptomics reveals a cross-modulatory effect between riboflavin and iron and outlines responses to riboflavin biosynthesis and uptake in Vibrio cholerae.	Vibrio cholerae, a pandemic diarrheagenic bacterium, is able to synthesize the essential vitamin riboflavin through the riboflavin biosynthetic pathway (RBP) and also to internalize it through the RibN importer. In bacteria, the way riboflavin biosynthesis and uptake functions correlate is unclear. To gain insights into the role of the riboflavin provision pathways in the physiology of V. cholerae, we analyzed the transcriptomics response to extracellular riboflavin and to deletions of ribD (RBP-deficient strain) or ribN. Many riboflavin-responsive genes were previously reported to belong to the iron regulon, including various iron uptake genes. Real time PCR analysis confirmed this effect and further documented that reciprocally, iron regulates RBP and ribN genes in a riboflavin-dependent way. A subset of genes were responding to both ribD and ribN deletions. However, in the subset of genes specifically affected in the ∆ribD strain, the functional terms protein folding and oxidation reduction process were enriched, as determined by a Gene Ontology analysis. In the gene subset specifically affected in the ∆ribN strain, the cytochrome complex assembly functional term was enriched. Results suggest that iron and riboflavin interrelate to regulate its respective provision genes and that both common and specific effects of biosynthesized and internalized riboflavin exist.	2018 02	Sepúlveda-Cisternas, Ignacio; Sepúlveda-Cisternas, I; Sepúlveda-Cisternas; Lozano Aguirre, Luis; Lozano Aguirre, L; Lozano Aguirre; Fuentes Flores, Andrés; Fuentes Flores, A; Fuentes Flores; Vásquez Solis de Ovando, Ignacio; Vásquez Solis de Ovando, I; Vásquez Solis de Ovando; García-Angulo, Víctor Antonio; García-Angulo, VA; García-Angulo	Sci Rep
29462877	Characterization of the Symbiotic Nitrogen-Fixing Common Bean Low Phytic Acid (lpa1) Mutant Response to Water Stress.	The common bean (<i>Phaseolus vulgaris</i> L.) <i>low phytic acid</i> (<i>lpa1</i>) biofortified genotype produces seeds with improved nutritional characteristics and does not display negative pleiotropic effects. Here we demonstrated that <i>lpa1</i> plants establish an efficient nitrogen-fixing symbiosis with <i>Rhizobium etli</i> CE3. The <i>lpa1</i> nodules showed a higher expression of nodule-function related genes than the nodules of the parental wild type genotype (BAT 93). We analyzed the response to water stress of <i>lpa1</i> vs. BAT 93 plants grown under fertilized or under symbiotic N₂-fixation conditions. Water stress was induced by water withholding (up to 14% soil moisture) to fertilized or <i>R. etli</i> nodulated plants previously grown with normal irrigation. The fertilized <i>lpa1</i> plants showed milder water stress symptoms during the water deployment period and after the rehydration recovery period when <i>lpa1</i> plants showed less biomass reduction. The symbiotic water-stressed <i>lpa1</i> plants showed decreased nitrogenase activity that coincides with decreased sucrose synthase gene expression in nodules; lower turgor weight to dry weight (DW) ratio, which has been associated with higher drought resistance index; downregulation of carbon/nitrogen (C/N)-related and upregulation of stress-related genes. Higher expression of stress-related genes was also observed in bacteroids of stressed <i>lpa1</i> plants that also displayed very high expression of the symbiotic <i>cbb</i>₃ oxidase (<i>fixN</i>d).	2018 Feb	Chiozzotto, Remo; Chiozzotto, R; Chiozzotto; Ramírez, Mario; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Talbi, Chouhra; Talbi, C; Talbi; Cominelli, Eleonora; Cominelli, E; Cominelli; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Sparvoli, Francesca; Sparvoli, F; Sparvoli; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	Genes (Basel)
29456457	Effect of ovarian cancer ascites on SKOV-3 cells proteome: new proteins associated with aggressive phenotype in epithelial ovarian cancer.	Epithelial ovarian cancer is the second most lethal gynecological cancer worldwide. Ascites can be found in all clinical stages, however in advanced disease stages IIIC and IV it is more frequent and could be massive, associated with worse prognosis. Due to the above, it was our interest to understanding how the ascites of ovarian cancer patients induces the mechanisms by which the cells present in it acquire a more aggressive phenotype and to know new proteins associated to this process.	2018	Toledo-Leyva, Alfredo; Toledo-Leyva, A; Toledo-Leyva; Villegas-Pineda, Julio César; Villegas-Pineda, JC; Villegas-Pineda; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Gallardo-Rincón, Dolores; Gallardo-Rincón, D; Gallardo-Rincón; Talamás-Rohana, Patricia; Talamás-Rohana, P; Talamás-Rohana	Proteome Sci
29386127	The Biological Role of the ζ Subunit as Unidirectional Inhibitor of the F<sub>1</sub>F<sub>O</sub>-ATPase of Paracoccus denitrificans.	The biological roles of the three natural F<sub>1</sub>F<sub>O</sub>-ATPase inhibitors, ε, ζ, and IF<sub>1</sub>, on cell physiology remain controversial. The ζ subunit is a useful model for deletion studies since it mimics mitochondrial IF<sub>1</sub>, but in the F<sub>1</sub>F<sub>O</sub>-ATPase of Paracoccus denitrificans (PdF<sub>1</sub>F<sub>O</sub>), it is a monogenic and supernumerary subunit. Here, we constructed a P. denitrificans 1222 derivative (PdΔζ) with a deleted ζ gene to determine its role in cell growth and bioenergetics. The results show that the lack of ζ in vivo strongly restricts respiratory P. denitrificans growth, and this is restored by complementation in trans with an exogenous ζ gene. Removal of ζ increased the coupled PdF<sub>1</sub>F<sub>O</sub>-ATPase activity without affecting the PdF<sub>1</sub>F<sub>O</sub>-ATP synthase turnover, and the latter was not affected at all by ζ reconstitution in vitro. Therefore, ζ works as a unidirectional pawl-ratchet inhibitor of the PdF<sub>1</sub>F<sub>O</sub>-ATPase nanomotor favoring the ATP synthase turnover to improve respiratory cell growth and bioenergetics.	2018 01	Mendoza-Hoffmann, Francisco; Mendoza-Hoffmann, F; Mendoza-Hoffmann; Pérez-Oseguera, Ángeles; Pérez-Oseguera, Á; Pérez-Oseguera; Cevallos, Miguel Ángel; Cevallos, MÁ; Cevallos; Zarco-Zavala, Mariel; Zarco-Zavala, M; Zarco-Zavala; Ortega, Raquel; Ortega, R; Ortega; Peña-Segura, Claudia; Peña-Segura, C; Peña-Segura; Espinoza-Simón, Emilio; Espinoza-Simón, E; Espinoza-Simón; Uribe-Carvajal, Salvador; Uribe-Carvajal, S; Uribe-Carvajal; García-Trejo, José J; García-Trejo, JJ; García-Trejo	Cell Rep
29375522	Identification of <i>lptA, lpxE</i>, and <i>lpxO</i>, Three Genes Involved in the Remodeling of <i>Brucella</i> Cell Envelope.	The brucellae are facultative intracellular bacteria that cause a worldwide extended zoonosis. One of the pathogenicity mechanisms of these bacteria is their ability to avoid rapid recognition by innate immunity because of a reduction of the pathogen-associated molecular pattern (PAMP) of the lipopolysaccharide (LPS), free-lipids, and other envelope molecules. We investigated the <i>Brucella</i> homologs of <i>lptA, lpxE</i>, and <i>lpxO</i>, three genes that in some pathogens encode enzymes that mask the LPS PAMP by upsetting the core-lipid A charge/hydrophobic balance. <i>Brucella lptA</i>, which encodes a putative ethanolamine transferase, carries a frame-shift in <i>B. abortus</i> but not in other <i>Brucella</i> spp. and phylogenetic neighbors like the opportunistic pathogen <i>Ochrobactrum anthropi.</i> Consistent with the genomic evidence, a <i>B. melitensis lptA</i> mutant lacked lipid A-linked ethanolamine and displayed increased sensitivity to polymyxin B (a surrogate of innate immunity bactericidal peptides), while <i>B. abortus</i> carrying <i>B. melitensis lptA</i> displayed increased resistance. <i>Brucella lpxE</i> encodes a putative phosphatase acting on lipid A or on a free-lipid that is highly conserved in all brucellae and <i>O. anthropi.</i> Although we found no evidence of lipid A dephosphorylation, a <i>B. abortus lpxE</i> mutant showed increased polymyxin B sensitivity, suggesting the existence of a hitherto unidentified free-lipid involved in bactericidal peptide resistance. Gene <i>lpxO</i> putatively encoding an acyl hydroxylase carries a frame-shift in all brucellae except <i>B. microti</i> and is intact in <i>O. anthropi</i>. Free-lipid analysis revealed that <i>lpxO</i> corresponded to <i>olsC</i>, the gene coding for the ornithine lipid (OL) acyl hydroxylase active in <i>O. anthropi</i> and <i>B. microti</i>, while <i>B. abortus</i> carrying the <i>olsC</i> of <i>O. anthropi</i> and <i>B. microti</i> synthesized hydroxylated OLs. Interestingly, mutants in <i>lptA, lpxE</i>, or <i>olsC</i> were not attenuated in dendritic cells or mice. This lack of an obvious effect on virulence together with the presence of the intact homolog genes in <i>O. anthropi</i> and <i>B. microti</i> but not in other brucellae suggests that LptA, LpxE, or OL β-hydroxylase do not significantly alter the PAMP properties of <i>Brucella</i> LPS and free-lipids and are therefore not positively selected during the adaptation to intracellular life.	2017	Conde-Álvarez, Raquel; Conde-Álvarez, R; Conde-Álvarez; Palacios-Chaves, Leyre; Palacios-Chaves, L; Palacios-Chaves; Gil-Ramírez, Yolanda; Gil-Ramírez, Y; Gil-Ramírez; Salvador-Bescós, Miriam; Salvador-Bescós, M; Salvador-Bescós; Bárcena-Varela, Marina; Bárcena-Varela, M; Bárcena-Varela; Aragón-Aranda, Beatriz; Aragón-Aranda, B; Aragón-Aranda; Martínez-Gómez, Estrella; Martínez-Gómez, E; Martínez-Gómez; Zúñiga-Ripa, Amaia; Zúñiga-Ripa, A; Zúñiga-Ripa; de Miguel, María J; de Miguel, MJ; de Miguel; Bartholomew, Toby Leigh; Bartholomew, TL; Bartholomew; Hanniffy, Sean; Hanniffy, S; Hanniffy; Grilló, María-Jesús; Grilló, MJ; Grilló; Vences-Guzmán, Miguel Ángel; Vences-Guzmán, MÁ; Vences-Guzmán; Bengoechea, José A; Bengoechea, JA; Bengoechea; Arce-Gorvel, Vilma; Arce-Gorvel, V; Arce-Gorvel; Gorvel, Jean-Pierre; Gorvel, JP; Gorvel; Moriyón, Ignacio; Moriyón, I; Moriyón; Iriarte, Maite; Iriarte, M; Iriarte	Front Microbiol
29689657	Genome misclassification of Klebsiella variicola and Klebsiella quasipneumoniae isolated from plants, animals and humans.	Due to the fact that K. variicola, K. quasipneumoniae and K. pneumoniae are closely related bacterial species, misclassification can occur due to mistakes either in normal biochemical tests or during submission to public databases. The objective of this work was to identify K. variicola and K. quasipneumoniae genomes misclassified in GenBank database.	2018 Jan-Feb	Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Rodríguez-Medina, Nadia; Rodríguez-Medina, N; Rodríguez-Medina; Beltrán-Rojel, Marilu; Beltrán-Rojel, M; Beltrán-Rojel; Silva-Sánchez, Jesús; Silva-Sánchez, J; Silva-Sánchez; Barrios-Camacho, Humberto; Barrios-Camacho, H; Barrios-Camacho; Pérez-Rueda, Ernesto; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda; Garza-Ramos, Ulises; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos	Salud Publica Mex
29689654	Klebsiella variicola and Klebsiella quasipneumoniae with capacity to adapt to clinical and plant settings.	To compare the genetic determinants involved in plant colonization or virulence in the reported genomes of K. variicola, K. quasipneumoniae and K. pneumoniae.	2018 Jan-Feb	Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Rodríguez-Medina, Nadia; Rodríguez-Medina, N; Rodríguez-Medina; Beltrán-Rojel, Marilú; Beltrán-Rojel, M; Beltrán-Rojel; Toribio-Jiménez, Jeiry; Toribio-Jiménez, J; Toribio-Jiménez; Garza-Ramos, Ulises; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos	Salud Publica Mex
29030443	Novel Metabolic Pathway for <i>N</i>-Methylpyrrolidone Degradation in Alicycliphilus sp. Strain BQ1.	The molecular mechanisms underlying the biodegradation of <i>N</i>-methylpyrrolidone (NMP), a widely used industrial solvent that produces skin irritation in humans and is teratogenic in rats, are unknown. <i>Alicycliphilus</i> sp. strain BQ1 degrades NMP. By studying a transposon-tagged mutant unable to degrade NMP, we identified a six-gene cluster (<i>nmpABCDEF</i>) that is transcribed as a polycistronic mRNA and encodes enzymes involved in NMP biodegradation. <i>nmpA</i> and the transposon-affected gene <i>nmpB</i> encode an <i>N</i>-methylhydantoin amidohydrolase that transforms NMP to γ-<i>N</i>-methylaminobutyric acid; this is metabolized by an amino acid oxidase (NMPC), either by demethylation to produce γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) or by deamination to produce succinate semialdehyde (SSA). If GABA is produced, the activity of a GABA aminotransferase (GABA-AT), not encoded in the <i>nmp</i> gene cluster, is needed to generate SSA. SSA is transformed by a succinate semialdehyde dehydrogenase (SSDH) (NMPF) to succinate, which enters the Krebs cycle. The abilities to consume NMP and to utilize it for growth were complemented in the transposon-tagged mutant by use of the <i>nmpABCD</i> genes. Similarly, <i>Escherichia coli</i> MG1655, which has two SSDHs but is unable to grow in NMP, acquired these abilities after functional complementation with these genes. In wild-type (wt) BQ1 cells growing in NMP, GABA was not detected, but SSA was present at double the amount found in cells growing in Luria-Bertani medium (LB), suggesting that GABA is not an intermediate in this pathway. Moreover, <i>E. coli</i> GABA-AT deletion mutants complemented with <i>nmpABCD</i> genes retained the ability to grow in NMP, supporting the possibility that γ-<i>N</i>-methylaminobutyric acid is deaminated to SSA instead of being demethylated to GABA.<b>IMPORTANCE</b><i>N</i>-Methylpyrrolidone is a cyclic amide reported to be biodegradable. However, the metabolic pathway and enzymatic activities for degrading NMP are unknown. By developing molecular biology techniques for <i>Alicycliphilus</i> sp. strain BQ1, an environmental bacterium able to grow in NMP, we identified a six-gene cluster encoding enzymatic activities involved in NMP degradation. These findings set the basis for the study of new enzymatic activities and for the development of biotechnological processes with potential applications in bioremediation.	2018 Jan	Solís-González, Claudia Julieta; Solís-González, CJ; Solís-González; Domínguez-Malfavón, Lilianha; Domínguez-Malfavón, L; Domínguez-Malfavón; Vargas-Suárez, Martín; Vargas-Suárez, M; Vargas-Suárez; Gaytán, Itzel; Gaytán, I; Gaytán; Cevallos, Miguel Ángel; Cevallos, MÁ; Cevallos; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Cruz-Gómez, M Javier; Cruz-Gómez, MJ; Cruz-Gómez; Loza-Tavera, Herminia; Loza-Tavera, H; Loza-Tavera	Appl Environ Microbiol
29267322	Characterization of Salmonella enterica isolates causing bacteremia in Lima, Peru, using multiple typing methods.	In this study, different molecular typing tools were applied to characterize 95 Salmonella enterica blood isolates collected between 2008 and 2013 from patients at nine public hospitals in Lima, Peru. Combined results of multiplex PCR serotyping, two- and seven-loci multilocus sequence typing (MLST) schemes, serotyping, IS200 amplification and RAPD fingerprints, showed that these infections were caused by eight different serovars: Enteritidis, Typhimurium, Typhi, Choleraesuis, Dublin, Paratyphi A, Paratyphi B and Infantis. Among these, Enteritidis, Typhimurium and Typhi were the most prevalent, representing 45, 36 and 11% of the isolates, respectively. Most isolates (74%) were not resistant to ten primarily used antimicrobial drugs; however, 37% of the strains showed intermediate susceptibility to ciprofloxacin (ISC). Antimicrobial resistance integrons were carried by one Dublin (dfra1 and aadA1) and two Infantis (aadA1) isolates. The two Infantis isolates were multidrug resistant and harbored a large megaplasmid. Amplification of spvC and spvRA regions showed that all Enteritidis (n = 42), Typhimurium (n = 34), Choleraesuis (n = 3) and Dublin (n = 1) isolates carried the Salmonella virulence plasmid (pSV). We conclude that the classic serotyping method can be substituted by the multiplex PCR and, when necessary, sequencing of only one or two loci of the MLST scheme is a valuable tool to confirm the results. The effectiveness and feasibility of different typing tools is discussed.	2017	Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva; Betancor, Laura; Betancor, L; Betancor; García, Coralith; García, C; García; Astocondor, Lizeth; Astocondor, L; Astocondor; Hinostroza, Noemí; Hinostroza, N; Hinostroza; Bisio, Julieta; Bisio, J; Bisio; Rivera, Javier; Rivera, J; Rivera; Perezgasga, Lucía; Perezgasga, L; Perezgasga; Pérez Escanda, Victoria; Pérez Escanda, V; Pérez Escanda; Yim, Lucía; Yim, L; Yim; Jacobs, Jan; Jacobs, J; Jacobs; García-Del Portillo, Francisco; García-Del Portillo, F; García-Del Portillo; SalmoIber CYTED Network; Chabalgoity, José A; Chabalgoity, JA; Chabalgoity; Puente, José L; Puente, JL; Puente	PLoS One
29121239	Overproduction of Sinorhizobium meliloti ArgC (N-acetyl-gamma-glutamyl phosphate reductase) promotes growth delay and inefficient nodules.	argC encodes N-acetyl-gamma-glutamyl phosphate reductase, the enzyme that catalyzes the high-energy-consuming third step in the arginine synthesis pathway. A comparative analysis revealed two translation start sites in argC from Sinorhizobium meliloti. To determine whether both protein versions are synthesized in the organism and their functional role, we obtained genetic constructs with one (1S) or two (2S) start sites, with promoters of low (pspeB) or high (plac) transcriptional rate. The constructs were transferred to the S. meliloti 1021 derivative argC mutant strain. Both protein versions were found in the free-living proteomes, but only ArgC 1S showed post-translational modification. Expression levels from argC 1S were five times higher than those of 2S, when transcribed by plac, and in concordance, its protein activity was 3-fold greater. The overexpression of both versions under plac delayed cellular growth. Inoculation of Medicago sativa plants with the S. meliloti strain harboring the argC 1S under plac induced nodulation but not nitrogen fixation. However, the strain with the argC 2S under the same promoter had a positive phenotype. Overproduction of ArgC protein for the synthesis of arginine induced physiological and symbiotic effects.	2017 Dec	Vargas-Lagunas, Carmen; Vargas-Lagunas, C; Vargas-Lagunas; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Díaz, Rafael; Díaz, R; Díaz; Martínez-Batallar, Gabriel; Martínez-Batallar, G; Martínez-Batallar; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	FEMS Microbiol Lett
29231872	A Deeper Examination of Thorellius atrox Scorpion Venom Components with Omic Techonologies.	This communication reports a further examination of venom gland transcripts and venom composition of the Mexican scorpion <i>Thorellius atrox</i> using RNA-seq and tandem mass spectrometry. The RNA-seq, which was performed with the Illumina protocol, yielded more than 20,000 assembled transcripts. Following a database search and annotation strategy, 160 transcripts were identified, potentially coding for venom components. A novel sequence was identified that potentially codes for a peptide with similarity to spider ω-agatoxins, which act on voltage-gated calcium channels, not known before to exist in scorpion venoms. Analogous transcripts were found in other scorpion species. They could represent members of a new scorpion toxin family, here named omegascorpins. The mass fingerprint by LC-MS identified 135 individual venom components, five of which matched with the theoretical masses of putative peptides translated from the transcriptome. The LC-MS/MS de novo sequencing allowed to reconstruct and identify 42 proteins encoded by assembled transcripts, thus validating the transcriptome analysis. Earlier studies conducted with this scorpion venom permitted the identification of only twenty putative venom components. The present work performed with more powerful and modern omic technologies demonstrates the capacity of accomplishing a deeper characterization of scorpion venom components and the identification of novel molecules with potential applications in biomedicine and the study of ion channel physiology.	2017 12	Romero-Gutierrez, Teresa; Romero-Gutierrez, T; Romero-Gutierrez; Peguero-Sanchez, Esteban; Peguero-Sanchez, E; Peguero-Sanchez; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Batista, Cesar V F; Batista, CVF; Batista; Ortiz, Ernesto; Ortiz, E; Ortiz; Possani, Lourival D; Possani, LD; Possani	Toxins (Basel)
29133310	Convergent origination of a <i>Drosophila</i>-like dosage compensation mechanism in a reptile lineage.	Sex chromosomes differentiated from different ancestral autosomes in various vertebrate lineages. Here, we trace the functional evolution of the XY Chromosomes of the green anole lizard (<i>Anolis carolinensis</i>), on the basis of extensive high-throughput genome, transcriptome and histone modification sequencing data and revisit dosage compensation evolution in representative mammals and birds with substantial new expression data. Our analyses show that <i>Anolis</i> sex chromosomes represent an ancient XY system that originated at least ≈160 million years ago in the ancestor of Iguania lizards, shortly after the separation from the snake lineage. The age of this system approximately coincides with the ages of the avian and two mammalian sex chromosomes systems. To compensate for the almost complete Y Chromosome degeneration, X-linked genes have become twofold up-regulated, restoring ancestral expression levels. The highly efficient dosage compensation mechanism of <i>Anolis</i> represents the only vertebrate case identified so far to fully support Ohno's original dosage compensation hypothesis. Further analyses reveal that X up-regulation occurs only in males and is mediated by a male-specific chromatin machinery that leads to global hyperacetylation of histone H4 at lysine 16 specifically on the X Chromosome. The green anole dosage compensation mechanism is highly reminiscent of that of the fruit fly, <i>Drosophila melanogaster</i> Altogether, our work unveils the convergent emergence of a <i>Drosophila</i>-like dosage compensation mechanism in an ancient reptilian sex chromosome system and highlights that the evolutionary pressures imposed by sex chromosome dosage reductions in different amniotes were resolved in fundamentally different ways.	2017 12	Marin, Ray; Marin, R; Marin; Cortez, Diego; Cortez, D; Cortez; Lamanna, Francesco; Lamanna, F; Lamanna; Pradeepa, Madapura M; Pradeepa, MM; Pradeepa; Leushkin, Evgeny; Leushkin, E; Leushkin; Julien, Philippe; Julien, P; Julien; Liechti, Angélica; Liechti, A; Liechti; Halbert, Jean; Halbert, J; Halbert; Brüning, Thoomke; Brüning, T; Brüning; Mössinger, Katharina; Mössinger, K; Mössinger; Trefzer, Timo; Trefzer, T; Trefzer; Conrad, Christian; Conrad, C; Conrad; Kerver, Halie N; Kerver, HN; Kerver; Wade, Juli; Wade, J; Wade; Tschopp, Patrick; Tschopp, P; Tschopp; Kaessmann, Henrik; Kaessmann, H; Kaessmann	Genome Res
29146860	Complete Genome Sequence of a Novel Nonnodulating <i>Rhizobium</i> Species Isolated from <i>Agave americana</i> L. Rhizosphere.	We report here the complete genome sequence of <i>Rhizobium</i> sp. strain ACO-34A, isolated from <i>Agave americana</i> L. rhizosphere. No common <i>nod</i> genes were found, but there were <i>nif</i> genes for nitrogen fixing. A low average nucleotide identity to reported species supports its designation as a novel <i>Rhizobium</i> species that has a complete ribosomal operon in a plasmid.	2017 Nov	Ruíz-Valdiviezo, Víctor Manuel; Ruíz-Valdiviezo, VM; Ruíz-Valdiviezo; Rogel-Hernandez, Marco Antonio; Rogel-Hernandez, MA; Rogel-Hernandez; Guerrero, Gabriela; Guerrero, G; Guerrero; Rincón-Molina, Clara Ivette; Rincón-Molina, CI; Rincón-Molina; García-Perez, Luis Galdino; García-Perez, LG; García-Perez; Gutiérrez-Miceli, Federico Antonio; Gutiérrez-Miceli, FA; Gutiérrez-Miceli; Villalobos-Maldonado, Juan José; Villalobos-Maldonado, JJ; Villalobos-Maldonado; López-López, Aline; López-López, A; López-López; Martinez-Romero, Esperanza; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Rincón-Rosales, Reiner; Rincón-Rosales, R; Rincón-Rosales	Genome Announc
29136456	The intimate talk between plants and microorganisms at the leaf surface.	The plant epidermis or cuticle is constantly exposed to external and internal environmental factors, including an enriched and diverse community of bacteria, yeast, fungi, viruses, and mites. It is not only where the plant has its first physical barrier, but also where organisms can be recognized and potentially where the plant defense responses can be triggered. The plant cuticle is a polymeric composite formed by an array of structurally and chemically heterogeneous compounds, including cutin and wax. A few studies have shown that cuticular components are essential and important drivers of the structure and size of the bacterial community. On the other hand, cuticular components are also important for both pathogens and plants, to initiate the pre-invasion and infection process and to activate the innate immune response, respectively. In this review, we explore current knowledge on the role of the cuticle during the intimate interactions between plants and microorganisms, in particular pathogenic and non-pathogenic bacteria and fungi. Finally, we propose new perspectives on the potential use of this information for agriculture.	2017 11	Aragón, Wendy; Aragón, W; Aragón; Reina-Pinto, José Juan; Reina-Pinto, JJ; Reina-Pinto; Serrano, Mario; Serrano, M; Serrano	J Exp Bot
28893905	Lysine acetylation stoichiometry and proteomics analyses reveal pathways regulated by sirtuin 1 in human cells.	Lysine acetylation is a widespread posttranslational modification affecting many biological pathways. Recent studies indicate that acetylated lysine residues mainly exhibit low acetylation occupancy, but challenges in sample preparation and analysis make it difficult to confidently assign these numbers, limiting understanding of their biological significance. Here, we tested three common sample preparation methods to determine their suitability for assessing acetylation stoichiometry in three human cell lines, identifying the acetylation occupancy in more than 1,300 proteins from each cell line. The stoichiometric analysis in combination with quantitative proteomics also enabled us to explore their functional roles. We found that higher abundance of the deacetylase sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) correlated with lower acetylation occupancy and lower levels of ribosomal proteins, including those involved in ribosome biogenesis and rRNA processing. Treatment with the SIRT1 inhibitor EX-527 confirmed SIRT1's role in the regulation of pre-rRNA synthesis and processing. Specifically, proteins involved in pre-rRNA transcription, including subunits of the polymerase I and SL1 complexes and the RNA polymerase I-specific transcription initiation factor RRN3, were up-regulated after SIRT1 inhibition. Moreover, many protein effectors and regulators of pre-rRNA processing needed for rRNA maturation were also up-regulated after EX-527 treatment with the outcome that pre-rRNA and 28S rRNA levels also increased. More generally, we found that SIRT1 inhibition down-regulates metabolic pathways, including glycolysis and pyruvate metabolism. Together, these results provide the largest data set thus far of lysine acetylation stoichiometry (available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD005903) and set the stage for further biological investigations of this central posttranslational modification.	2017 11	Gil, Jeovanis; Gil, J; Gil; Ramírez-Torres, Alberto; Ramírez-Torres, A; Ramírez-Torres; Chiappe, Diego; Chiappe, D; Chiappe; Luna-Peñaloza, Juan; Luna-Peñaloza, J; Luna-Peñaloza; Fernandez-Reyes, Francis C; Fernandez-Reyes, FC; Fernandez-Reyes; Arcos-Encarnación, Bolivar; Arcos-Encarnación, B; Arcos-Encarnación; Contreras, Sandra; Contreras, S; Contreras; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara	J Biol Chem
27760387	Bacterial lipid diversity.	The glycerophospholipids phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylglycerol (PG), and cardiolipin (CL) are major structural components of bacterial membranes. In some bacteria, phosphatidylcholine or phosphatidylinositol and its derivatives form part of the membrane. PG or CL can be modified with the amino acid residues lysine, alanine, or arginine. Diacylglycerol is the lipid anchor from which syntheses of phosphorus-free glycerolipids, such as glycolipids, sulfolipids, or homoserine-derived lipids initiate. Many membrane lipids are subject to turnover and some of them are recycled. Other lipids associated with the membrane include isoprenoids and their derivatives such as hopanoids. Ornithine-containing lipids are widespread in Bacteria but absent in Archaea and Eukarya. Some lipids are probably associated exclusively with the outer membrane of many bacteria, i.e. lipopolysaccharides, sphingolipids, or sulfonolipids. For certain specialized membrane functions, specific lipid structures might be required. Upon cyst formation in Azotobacter vinelandii, phenolic lipids are accumulated in the membrane. Anammox bacteria contain ladderane lipids in the membrane surrounding the anammoxosome organelle, presumably to impede the passage of highly toxic compounds generated during the anammox reaction. Considering that present knowledge on bacterial lipids was obtained from only a few bacterial species, we are probably only starting to unravel the full scale of lipid diversity in bacteria. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Bacterial Lipids edited by Russell E. Bishop.	2017 Nov	López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	Biochim Biophys Acta Mol Cell Biol Lipids
29192074	Draft Genome Sequence of <i>Leuconostoc citreum</i> CW28 Isolated from Pozol, a Pre-Hispanic Fermented Corn Beverage.	<i>Leuconostoc citreum</i> CW28 was isolated from pozol, a Mayan fermented corn beverage. This strain produces a cell-associated inulosucrase, the first described in bacteria. Its draft genome sequence, announced here, has an estimated size of 1.98 Mb and harbors 1,915 coding genes, 12 rRNAs, 68 tRNAs, 17 putative pseudogenes, and 1 putative phage.	2017 Nov	Olvera, Clarita; Olvera, C; Olvera; Santamaría, Rosa I; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Vallejo, Cristina; Vallejo, C; Vallejo; Montor, Juan J; Montor, JJ; Montor; Wacher, Carmen; Wacher, C; Wacher; Lopez Munguia, Agustín; Lopez Munguia, A; Lopez Munguia	Genome Announc
28522365	Knowns and unknowns of membrane lipid synthesis in streptomycetes.	Bacteria belonging to the genus Streptomyces are among the most prolific producers of antibiotics. Research on cellular membrane biosynthesis and turnover is lagging behind in Streptomyces compared to related organisms like Mycobacterium tuberculosis. While natural products discovery in Streptomyces is evidently a priority in order to discover new antibiotics to combat the increase in antibiotic resistant pathogens, a better understanding of this cellular compartment should provide insights into the interplay between core and secondary metabolism. However, some of the pathways for membrane lipid biosynthesis are still incomplete. In addition, while it has become clear that remodelling of the membrane is necessary for coping with environmental stress and for morphological differentiation, the detailed mechanisms of these adaptations remain elusive. Here, we aim to provide a summary of what is known about the polar lipid composition in Streptomyces, the biosynthetic pathways of polar lipids, and to highlight current gaps in understanding function, dynamics and biosynthesis of these essential molecules.	2017 Oct	Sandoval-Calderón, Mario; Sandoval-Calderón, M; Sandoval-Calderón; Guan, Ziqiang; Guan, Z; Guan; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	Biochimie
28399499	Occurrence of personal care products as emerging chemicals of concern in water resources: A review.	Personal care products (PCPs) are a diverse group of common household substances used for health, beauty and cleaning purposes. These include disinfectants, fragrances, insect repellents, preservatives and UV filters, among others. Some of them are considered chemicals of emerging concern due to their presence and negative impact on aquatic ecosystems, specially related to endocrine disruption and reproductive disorders. The entry of those chemicals to water bodies occurs mainly through the sewage effluents from wastewater treatment plants due to their incomplete or inefficient removal. The purpose of this review was to collect and analyze data about the incidence and concentrations of PCPs reported as emerging pollutants in different water matrices, including wastewater influents and effluents. Our database is composed of 141 articles with information about 72 PCPs recorded as emerging pollutants in 30 countries, in concentrations ranging from 0.029ng/L to 7.811×10<sup>6</sup>ng/L. Fragrances, antiseptics and sunscreens were the most reported groups. As expected, the largest number of PCPs documented as emerging pollutants were found in wastewater treatment plant effluents with a total of 64 compounds, compared to 43 in surface water and 23 in groundwater, which evidence the anthropological contribution of PCPs to water bodies. These molecules were found in all the continents, however, there is a lack of information regarding the presence of emerging pollutants from PCPs in developing countries. Therefore, we suggest further efforts in assessing the occurrence and concentrations of these chemicals in those areas.	2017 Oct	Montes-Grajales, Diana; Montes-Grajales, D; Montes-Grajales; Fennix-Agudelo, Mary; Fennix-Agudelo, M; Fennix-Agudelo; Miranda-Castro, Wendy; Miranda-Castro, W; Miranda-Castro	Sci Total Environ
28979253	Rapid Gene Turnover as a Significant Source of Genetic Variation in a Recently Seeded Population of a Healthcare-Associated Pathogen.	Genome sequencing has been useful to gain an understanding of bacterial evolution. It has been used for studying the phylogeography and/or the impact of mutation and recombination on bacterial populations. However, it has rarely been used to study gene turnover at microevolutionary scales. Here, we sequenced Mexican strains of the human pathogen <i>Acinetobacter baumannii</i> sampled from the same locale over a 3 year period to obtain insights into the microevolutionary dynamics of gene content variability. We found that the Mexican <i>A. baumannii</i> population was recently founded and has been emerging due to a rapid clonal expansion. Furthermore, we noticed that on average the Mexican strains differed from each other by over 300 genes and, notably, this gene content variation has accrued more frequently and faster than the accumulation of mutations. Moreover, due to its rapid pace, gene content variation reflects the phylogeny only at very short periods of time. Additionally, we found that the external branches of the phylogeny had almost 100 more genes than the internal branches. All in all, these results show that rapid gene turnover has been of paramount importance in producing genetic variation within this population and demonstrate the utility of genome sequencing to study alternative forms of genetic variation.	2017	Graña-Miraglia, Lucía; Graña-Miraglia, L; Graña-Miraglia; Lozano, Luis F; Lozano, LF; Lozano; Velázquez, Consuelo; Velázquez, C; Velázquez; Volkow-Fernández, Patricia; Volkow-Fernández, P; Volkow-Fernández; Pérez-Oseguera, Ángeles; Pérez-Oseguera, Á; Pérez-Oseguera; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez	Front Microbiol
27829123	Functional architecture and global properties of the Corynebacterium glutamicum regulatory network: Novel insights from a dataset with a high genomic coverage.	Corynebacterium glutamicum is a Gram-positive, anaerobic, rod-shaped soil bacterium able to grow on a diversity of carbon sources like sugars and organic acids. It is a biotechnological relevant organism because of its highly efficient ability to biosynthesize amino acids, such as l-glutamic acid and l-lysine. Here, we reconstructed the most complete C. glutamicum regulatory network to date and comprehensively analyzed its global organizational properties, systems-level features and functional architecture. Our analyses show the tremendous power of Abasy Atlas to study the functional organization of regulatory networks. We created two models of the C. glutamicum regulatory network: all-evidences (containing both weak and strong supported interactions, genomic coverage=73%) and strongly-supported (only accounting for strongly supported evidences, genomic coverage=71%). Using state-of-the-art methodologies, we prove that power-law behaviors truly govern the connectivity and clustering coefficient distributions. We found a non-previously reported circuit motif that we named complex feed-forward motif. We highlighted the importance of feedback loops for the functional architecture, beyond whether they are statistically over-represented or not in the network. We show that the previously reported top-down approach is inadequate to infer the hierarchy governing a regulatory network because feedback bridges different hierarchical layers, and the top-down approach disregards the presence of intermodular genes shaping the integration layer. Our findings all together further support a diamond-shaped, three-layered hierarchy exhibiting some feedback between processing and coordination layers, which is shaped by four classes of systems-level elements: global regulators, locally autonomous modules, basal machinery and intermodular genes.	2017 Sep	Freyre-González, Julio A; Freyre-González, JA; Freyre-González; Tauch, Andreas; Tauch, A; Tauch	J Biotechnol
28883144	Complete Genome Sequence of a <i>bla</i><sub>OXA-58</sub>-Producing <i>Acinetobacter baumannii</i> Strain Isolated from a Mexican Hospital.	In this study, we present the complete genome sequence of a <i>bla</i><sub>OXA-58</sub>-producing <i>Acinetobacter baumannii</i> strain, sampled from a Mexican hospital and not related to the international clones.	2017 Sep	Pérez-Oseguera, Ángeles; Pérez-Oseguera, Á; Pérez-Oseguera; Castro-Jaimes, Semiramis; Castro-Jaimes, S; Castro-Jaimes; Salgado-Camargo, Abraham David; Salgado-Camargo, AD; Salgado-Camargo; Silva-Sanchez, Jesus; Silva-Sanchez, J; Silva-Sanchez; Garza-González, Elvira; Garza-González, E; Garza-González; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Cevallos, Miguel Ángel; Cevallos, MÁ; Cevallos	Genome Announc
30605507	Candidatus Dactylopiibacterium carminicum, a Nitrogen-Fixing Symbiont of Dactylopius Cochineal Insects (Hemiptera: Coccoidea: Dactylopiidae).	The domesticated carmine cochineal Dactylopius coccus (scale insect) has commercial value and has been used for more than 500 years for natural red pigment production. Besides the domesticated cochineal, other wild Dactylopius species such as Dactylopius opuntiae are found in the Americas, all feeding on nutrient poor sap from native cacti. To compensate nutritional deficiencies, many insects harbor symbiotic bacteria which provide essential amino acids or vitamins to their hosts. Here, we characterized a symbiont from the carmine cochineal insects, Candidatus Dactylopiibacterium carminicum (betaproteobacterium, Rhodocyclaceae family) and found it in D. coccus and in D. opuntiae ovaries by fluorescent in situ hybridization, suggesting maternal inheritance. Bacterial genomes recovered from metagenomic data derived from whole insects or tissues both from D. coccus and from D. opuntiae were around 3.6 Mb in size. Phylogenomics showed that dactylopiibacteria constituted a closely related clade neighbor to nitrogen fixing bacteria from soil or from various plants including rice and other grass endophytes. Metabolic capabilities were inferred from genomic analyses, showing a complete operon for nitrogen fixation, biosynthesis of amino acids and vitamins and putative traits of anaerobic or microoxic metabolism as well as genes for plant interaction. Dactylopiibacterium nif gene expression and acetylene reduction activity detecting nitrogen fixation were evidenced in D. coccus hemolymph and ovaries, in congruence with the endosymbiont fluorescent in situ hybridization location. Dactylopiibacterium symbionts may compensate for the nitrogen deficiency in the cochineal diet. In addition, this symbiont may provide essential amino acids, recycle uric acid, and increase the cochineal life span.	2017 09	Vera-Ponce de León, Arturo; Vera-Ponce de León, A; Vera-Ponce de León; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Ramírez-Puebla, Shamayim T; Ramírez-Puebla, ST; Ramírez-Puebla; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Degli Esposti, Mauro; Degli Esposti, M; Degli Esposti; Martínez-Romero, Julio; Martínez-Romero, J; Martínez-Romero; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Genome Biol Evol
28721334	Draft genome sequence of <i>Bradyrhizobium paxllaeri</i> LMTR 21<sup>T</sup> isolated from Lima bean (<i>Phaseolus lunatus</i>) in Peru.	<i>Bradyrhizobium paxllaeri</i> is a prevalent species in root nodules of the Lima bean (<i>Phaseolus lunatus</i>) in Peru. LMTR 21<sup>T</sup> is the type strain of the species and was isolated from a root nodule collected in an agricultural field in the Peruvian central coast. Its 8.29 Mbp genome encoded 7635 CDS, 71 tRNAs and 3 rRNAs genes. All genes required to stablish a nitrogen-fixing symbiosis with its host were present. The draft genome sequence and annotation have been deposited at GenBank under the accession number MAXB00000000.	2017 Sep	Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Rey, Luis; Rey, L; Rey; Durán, David; Durán, D; Durán; Canchaya, Carlos A; Canchaya, CA; Canchaya; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Zúñiga-Dávila, Doris; Zúñiga-Dávila, D; Zúñiga-Dávila; Imperial, Juan; Imperial, J; Imperial; Ruiz-Argüeso, Tomás; Ruiz-Argüeso, T; Ruiz-Argüeso; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Genom Data
28702356	Genome sequence of <i>Bradyrhizobium</i> sp. LMTR 3, a diazotrophic symbiont of Lima bean (<i>Phaseolus lunatus</i>).	<i>Bradyrhizobium</i> sp. LMTR 3 is a representative strain of one of the geno(species) of diazotrophic symbionts associated with Lima bean (<i>Phaseolus lunatus</i>) in Peru. Its 7.83 Mb genome was sequenced using the Illumina technology and found to encode a complete set of genes required for nodulation and nitrogen fixation, and additional genes putatively involved in root colonization. Its draft genome sequence and annotation have been deposited at GenBank under the accession number MAXC00000000.	2017 Sep	Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Rey, Luis; Rey, L; Rey; Durán, David; Durán, D; Durán; Canchaya, Carlos A; Canchaya, CA; Canchaya; Zúñiga-Dávila, Doris; Zúñiga-Dávila, D; Zúñiga-Dávila; Imperial, Juan; Imperial, J; Imperial; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Ruiz-Argüeso, Tomás; Ruiz-Argüeso, T; Ruiz-Argüeso	Genom Data
28922870	Male Mutation Bias Is the Main Force Shaping Chromosomal Substitution Rates in Monotreme Mammals.	In many species, spermatogenesis involves more cell divisions than oogenesis, and the male germline, therefore, accumulates more DNA replication errors, a phenomenon known as male mutation bias. The extent of male mutation bias (α) is estimated by comparing substitution rates of the X, Y, and autosomal chromosomes, as these chromosomes spend different proportions of their time in the germlines of the two sexes. Male mutation bias has been characterized in placental and marsupial mammals as well as birds, but analyses in monotremes failed to detect any such bias. Monotremes are an ancient lineage of egg-laying mammals with distinct biological properties, which include unique germline features. Here, we sought to assess the presence and potential characteristics of male mutation bias in platypus and the short-beaked echidna based on substitution rate analyses of X, Y, and autosomes. We established the presence of moderate male mutation bias in monotremes, corresponding to an α value of 2.12-3.69. Given that it has been unclear what proportion of the variation in substitution rates on the different chromosomal classes is really due to differential number of replications, we analyzed the influence of other confounding forces (selection, replication-timing, etc.) and found that male mutation bias is the main force explaining the between-chromosome classes differences in substitution rates. Finally, we estimated the proportion of variation at the gene level in substitution rates that is owing to replication effects and found that this phenomenon can explain >68% of these variations in monotremes, and in control species, rodents, and primates.	2017 09	Link, Vivian; Link, V; Link; Aguilar-Gómez, Diana; Aguilar-Gómez, D; Aguilar-Gómez; Ramírez-Suástegui, Ciro; Ramírez-Suástegui, C; Ramírez-Suástegui; Hurst, Laurence D; Hurst, LD; Hurst; Cortez, Diego; Cortez, D; Cortez	Genome Biol Evol
28541477	Mitochondrial Retroprocessing Promoted Functional Transfers of rpl5 to the Nucleus in Grasses.	Functional gene transfers from the mitochondrion to the nucleus are ongoing in angiosperms and have occurred repeatedly for all 15 ribosomal protein genes, but it is not clear why some of these genes are transferred more often than others nor what the balance is between DNA- and RNA-mediated transfers. Although direct insertion of mitochondrial DNA into the nucleus occurs frequently in angiosperms, case studies of functional mitochondrial gene transfer have implicated an RNA-mediated mechanism that eliminates introns and RNA editing sites, which would otherwise impede proper expression of mitochondrial genes in the nucleus. To elucidate the mechanisms that facilitate functional gene transfers and the evolutionary dynamics of the coexisting nuclear and mitochondrial gene copies that are established during these transfers, we have analyzed rpl5 genes from 90 grasses (Poaceae) and related monocots. Multiple lines of evidence indicate that rpl5 has been functionally transferred to the nucleus at least three separate times in the grass family and that at least seven species have intact and transcribed (but not necessarily functional) copies in both the mitochondrion and nucleus. In two grasses, likely functional nuclear copies of rpl5 have been subject to recent gene conversion events via secondarily transferred mitochondrial copies in what we believe are the first described cases of mitochondrial-to-nuclear gene conversion. We show that rpl5 underwent a retroprocessing event within the mitochondrial genome early in the evolution of the grass family, which we argue predisposed the gene towards successful, DNA-mediated functional transfer by generating a "pre-edited" sequence.	2017 09	Wu, Zhiqiang; Wu, Z; Wu; Sloan, Daniel B; Sloan, DB; Sloan; Brown, Colin W; Brown, CW; Brown; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Palmer, Jeffrey D; Palmer, JD; Palmer; Ong, Han Chuan; Ong, HC; Ong	Mol Biol Evol
28912771	Selection of Functional Quorum Sensing Systems by Lysogenic Bacteriophages in <i>Pseudomonas aeruginosa</i>.	Quorum sensing (QS) in <i>Pseudomonas aeruginosa</i> coordinates the expression of virulence factors, some of which are used as public goods. Since their production is a cooperative behavior, it is susceptible to social cheating in which non-cooperative QS deficient mutants use the resources without investing in their production. Nevertheless, functional QS systems are abundant; hence, mechanisms regulating the amount of cheating should exist. Evidence that demonstrates a tight relationship between QS and the susceptibility of bacteria against the attack of lytic phages is increasing; nevertheless, the relationship between temperate phages and QS has been much less explored. Therefore, in this work, we studied the effects of having a functional QS system on the susceptibility to temperate bacteriophages and how this affects the bacterial and phage dynamics. We find that both experimentally and using mathematical models, that the lysogenic bacteriophages D3112 and JBD30 select QS-proficient <i>P. aeruginosa</i> phenotypes as compared to the QS-deficient mutants during competition experiments with mixed strain populations <i>in vitro</i> and <i>in vivo</i> in <i>Galleria mellonella</i>, in spite of the fact that both phages replicate better in the wild-type background. We show that this phenomenon restricts social cheating, and we propose that temperate phages may constitute an important selective pressure toward the conservation of bacterial QS.	2017	Saucedo-Mora, Miguel A; Saucedo-Mora, MA; Saucedo-Mora; Castañeda-Tamez, Paulina; Castañeda-Tamez, P; Castañeda-Tamez; Cazares, Adrián; Cazares, A; Cazares; Pérez-Velázquez, Judith; Pérez-Velázquez, J; Pérez-Velázquez; Hense, Burkhard A; Hense, BA; Hense; Cazares, Daniel; Cazares, D; Cazares; Figueroa, Wendy; Figueroa, W; Figueroa; Carballo, Marco; Carballo, M; Carballo; Guarneros, Gabriel; Guarneros, G; Guarneros; Pérez-Eretza, Berenice; Pérez-Eretza, B; Pérez-Eretza; Cruz, Nelby; Cruz, N; Cruz; Nishiyama, Yoshito; Nishiyama, Y; Nishiyama; Maeda, Toshinari; Maeda, T; Maeda; Belmont-Díaz, Javier A; Belmont-Díaz, JA; Belmont-Díaz; Wood, Thomas K; Wood, TK; Wood; García-Contreras, Rodolfo; García-Contreras, R; García-Contreras	Front Microbiol
28830361	Identification and analysis of alternative splicing events in Phaseolus vulgaris and Glycine max.	The vast diversification of proteins in eukaryotic cells has been related with multiple transcript isoforms from a single gene that result in alternative splicing (AS) of primary transcripts. Analysis of RNA sequencing data from expressed sequence tags and next generation RNA sequencing has been crucial for AS identification and genome-wide AS studies. For the identification of AS events from the related legume species Phaseolus vulgaris and Glycine max, 157 and 88 publicly available RNA-seq libraries, respectively, were analyzed.	2017 Aug	Iñiguez, Luis P; Iñiguez, LP; Iñiguez; Ramírez, Mario; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Barbazuk, William B; Barbazuk, WB; Barbazuk; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	BMC Genomics
28818899	Draft Genome Sequence of <i>Sphingobacterium</i> sp. CZ-UAM, Isolated from a Methanotrophic Consortium.	<i>Sphingobacterium</i> sp. CZ-UAM was isolated from a methanotrophic consortium in mineral medium using methane as the only carbon source. A draft genome of 5.84 Mb with a 40.77% G+C content is reported here. This genome sequence will allow the investigation of potential methanotrophy in this isolated strain.	2017 Aug	Steffani-Vallejo, José Luis; Steffani-Vallejo, JL; Steffani-Vallejo; Zuñiga, Cristal; Zuñiga, C; Zuñiga; Cruz-Morales, Pablo; Cruz-Morales, P; Cruz-Morales; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Morales, Marcia; Morales, M; Morales; Licona-Cassani, Cuauhtemoc; Licona-Cassani, C; Licona-Cassani; Revah, Sergio; Revah, S; Revah; Utrilla, José; Utrilla, J; Utrilla	Genome Announc
28861062	Evolutionary Genetic Analysis Uncovers Multiple Species with Distinct Habitat Preferences and Antibiotic Resistance Phenotypes in the <i>Stenotrophomonas maltophilia</i> Complex.	The genus <i>Stenotrophomonas</i> (<i>Gammaproteobacteria</i>) has a broad environmental distribution. <i>Stenotrophomonas maltophilia</i> is its best known species because it is a globally emerging, multidrug-resistant (MDR), opportunistic pathogen. Members of this species are known to display high genetic, ecological and phenotypic diversity, forming the so-called <i>S. maltophilia</i> complex (Smc). Heterogeneous resistance and virulence phenotypes have been reported for environmental Smc isolates of diverse ecological origin. We hypothesized that this heterogeneity could be in part due to the potential lumping of several cryptic species in the Smc. Here we used state-of-the-art phylogenetic and population genetics methods to test this hypothesis based on the multilocus dataset available for the genus at pubmlst.org. It was extended with sequences from complete and draft genome sequences to assemble a comprehensive set of reference sequences. This framework was used to analyze 108 environmental isolates obtained in this study from the sediment and water column of four rivers and streams in Central Mexico, affected by contrasting levels of anthropogenic pollution. The aim of the study was to identify species in this collection, defined as genetically cohesive sequence clusters, and to determine the extent of their genetic, ecological and phenotypic differentiation. The multispecies coalescent, coupled with Bayes factor analysis was used to delimit species borders, together with population genetic structure analyses, recombination and gene flow estimates between sequence clusters. These analyses consistently revealed that the Smc contains at least 5 significantly differentiated lineages: <i>S. maltophilia</i> and Smc1 to Smc4. Only <i>S. maltophilia</i> was found to be intrinsically MDR, all its members expressing metallo-β-lactamases (MBLs). The other Smc lineages were not MDR and did not express MBLs. We also obtained isolates related to <i>S. acidaminiphila</i>, <i>S. humi</i> and <i>S. terrae</i>. They were significantly more susceptible to antibiotics than <i>S. maltophilia</i>. We demonstrate that the sympatric lineages recovered display significantly differentiated habitat preferences, antibiotic resistance profiles and β-lactamase expression phenotypes, as shown by diverse multivariate analyses and robust univariate statistical tests. We discuss our data in light of current models of bacterial speciation, which fit these data well, stressing the implications of species delimitation in ecological, evolutionary and clinical research.	2017	Ochoa-Sánchez, Luz E; Ochoa-Sánchez, LE; Ochoa-Sánchez; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa	Front Microbiol
28824593	Genome-Wide Mapping of Transcriptional Regulation and Metabolism Describes Information-Processing Units in <i>Escherichia coli</i>.	In the face of changes in their environment, bacteria adjust gene expression levels and produce appropriate responses. The individual layers of this process have been widely studied: the transcriptional regulatory network describes the regulatory interactions that produce changes in the metabolic network, both of which are coordinated by the signaling network, but the interplay between them has never been described in a systematic fashion. Here, we formalize the process of detection and processing of environmental information mediated by individual transcription factors (TFs), utilizing a concept termed genetic sensory response units (GENSOR units), which are composed of four components: (1) a signal, (2) signal transduction, (3) genetic switch, and (4) a response. We used experimentally validated data sets from two databases to assemble a GENSOR unit for each of the 189 local TFs of <i>Escherichia coli</i> K-12 contained in the RegulonDB database. Further analysis suggested that feedback is a common occurrence in signal processing, and there is a gradient of functional complexity in the response mediated by each TF, as opposed to a one regulator/one pathway rule. Finally, we provide examples of other GENSOR unit applications, such as hypothesis generation, detailed description of cellular decision making, and elucidation of indirect regulatory mechanisms.	2017	Ledezma-Tejeida, Daniela; Ledezma-Tejeida, D; Ledezma-Tejeida; Ishida, Cecilia; Ishida, C; Ishida; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Front Microbiol
28217917	A comprehensive phylogenetic analysis of copper transporting P<sub>1B</sub> ATPases from bacteria of the Rhizobiales order uncovers multiplicity, diversity and novel taxonomic subtypes.	The ubiquitous cytoplasmic membrane copper transporting P<sub>1B-1</sub> and P<sub>1B-3</sub> -type ATPases pump out Cu<sup>+</sup> and Cu<sup>2+</sup> , respectively, to prevent cytoplasmic accumulation and avoid toxicity. The presence of five copies of Cu-ATPases in the symbiotic nitrogen-fixing bacteria Sinorhizobium meliloti is remarkable; it is the largest number of Cu<sup>+</sup> -transporters in a bacterial genome reported to date. Since the prevalence of multiple Cu-ATPases in members of the Rhizobiales order is unknown, we performed an in silico analysis to understand the occurrence, diversity and evolution of Cu<sup>+</sup> -ATPases in members of the Rhizobiales order. Multiple copies of Cu-ATPase coding genes (2-8) were detected in 45 of the 53 analyzed genomes. The diversity inferred from a maximum-likelihood (ML) phylogenetic analysis classified Cu-ATPases into four monophyletic groups. Each group contained additional subtypes, based on the presence of conserved motifs. This novel phylogeny redefines the current classification, where they are divided into two subtypes (P<sub>1B-1</sub> and P<sub>1B-3</sub> ). Horizontal gene transfer (HGT) as well as the evolutionary dynamic of plasmid-borne genes may have played an important role in the functional diversification of Cu-ATPases. Homologous cytoplasmic and periplasmic Cu<sup>+</sup> -chaperones, CopZ, and CusF, that integrate a CopZ-CopA-CusF tripartite efflux system in gamma-proteobacteria and archeae, were found in 19 of the 53 surveyed genomes of the Rhizobiales. This result strongly suggests a high divergence of CopZ and CusF homologs, or the existence of unexplored proteins involved in cellular copper transport.	2017 08	Cubillas, Ciro; Cubillas, C; Cubillas; Miranda-Sánchez, Fabiola; Miranda-Sánchez, F; Miranda-Sánchez; González-Sánchez, Antonio; González-Sánchez, A; González-Sánchez; Elizalde, José Pedro; Elizalde, JP; Elizalde; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; García-de Los Santos, Alejandro; García-de Los Santos, A; García-de Los Santos	Microbiologyopen
28873965	An expanded mammal mitogenome dataset from Southeast Asia.	Southeast (SE) Asia is 1 of the most biodiverse regions in the world, and it holds approximately 20% of all mammal species. Despite this, the majority of SE Asia's genetic diversity is still poorly characterized. The growing interest in using environmental DNA to assess and monitor SE Asian species, in particular threatened mammals-has created the urgent need to expand the available reference database of mitochondrial barcode and complete mitogenome sequences. We have partially addressed this need by generating 72 new mitogenome sequences reconstructed from DNA isolated from a range of historical and modern tissue samples. Approximately 55 gigabases of raw sequence were generated. From this data, we assembled 72 complete mitogenome sequences, with an average depth of coverage of ×102.9 and ×55.2 for modern samples and historical samples, respectively. This dataset represents 52 species, of which 30 species had no previous mitogenome data available. The mitogenomes were geotagged to their sampling location, where known, to display a detailed geographical distribution of the species. Our new database of 52 taxa will strongly enhance the utility of environmental DNA approaches for monitoring mammals in SE Asia as it greatly increases the likelihoods that identification of metabarcoding sequencing reads can be assigned to reference sequences. This magnifies the confidence in species detections and thus allows more robust surveys and monitoring programmes of SE Asia's threatened mammal biodiversity. The extensive collections of historical samples from SE Asia in western and SE Asian museums should serve as additional valuable material to further enrich this reference database.	2017 08	Mohd Salleh, Faezah; Mohd Salleh, F; Mohd Salleh; Ramos-Madrigal, Jazmín; Ramos-Madrigal, J; Ramos-Madrigal; Peñaloza, Fernando; Peñaloza, F; Peñaloza; Liu, Shanlin; Liu, S; Liu; Mikkel-Holger, S Sinding; Mikkel-Holger, SS; Mikkel-Holger; Riddhi, P Patel; Riddhi, PP; Riddhi; Martins, Renata; Martins, R; Martins; Lenz, Dorina; Lenz, D; Lenz; Fickel, Jörns; Fickel, J; Fickel; Roos, Christian; Roos, C; Roos; Shamsir, Mohd Shahir; Shamsir, MS; Shamsir; Azman, Mohammad Shahfiz; Azman, MS; Azman; Burton, K Lim; Burton, KL; Burton; Stephen, J Rossiter; Stephen, JR; Stephen; Wilting, Andreas; Wilting, A; Wilting; Gilbert, M Thomas P; Gilbert, MTP; Gilbert	Gigascience
28751391	Complete Genome Sequences of Eight <i>Rhizobium</i> Symbionts Associated with Common Bean (<i>Phaseolus vulgaris</i>).	We present here the high-quality complete genome sequences of eight strains of <i>Rhizobium</i>-nodulating <i>Phaseolus vulgaris</i> Comparative analyses showed that some of them belonged to different genomic and evolutionary lineages with common symbiotic properties. Two novel symbiotic plasmids (pSyms) with <i>P. vulgaris</i> specificity are reported here.	2017 Jul	Santamaría, Rosa Isela; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Pérez-Carrascal, Olga María; Pérez-Carrascal, OM; Pérez-Carrascal; Miranda-Sánchez, Fabiola; Miranda-Sánchez, F; Miranda-Sánchez; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; Juárez, Soledad; Juárez, S; Juárez; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Cevallos, Miguel Ángel; Cevallos, MÁ; Cevallos; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; González, Víctor; González, V; González	Genome Announc
28671531	Genomic and physiological characterization of a laboratory-isolated Acinetobacter schindleri ACE strain that quickly and efficiently catabolizes acetate.	An Acinetobacter strain, designated ACE, was isolated in the laboratory. Phylogenetic tests and average nucleotide identity value comparisons suggested that ACE belongs to the species Acinetobacterschindleri. We report for the first time the complete genome sequence of an A. schindleri strain, which consists of a single circular chromosome of 3 001 209 bp with an overall DNA G+C content of 42.9 mol% and six plasmids that account for 266 844 bp of extrachromosomal material. The presence or absence of genes related to carbon catabolism and antibiotic resistance were in agreement with the phenotypic characterization of ACE. This strain grew faster and with a higher biomass yield on acetate than the reference strain Acinetobacter baylyi ADP1. However, ACE did not use aromatic compounds and was unable to grow on common carbon sources, such as glucose, xylose, glycerol or citrate. The gluconeogenic and the catechol pathways are complete in ACE, but compounds that are converted to protocatechuate did not sustain growth since some genes of this pathway are missing. Likewise, this strain could not grow on glucose because it lacks the genes of the Entner-Doudoroff pathway. Minimal inhibitory concentration data showed that ACE was susceptible to most of the antimicrobial agents recommended for the clinical treatment of Acinetobacter spp. Some genes related to a possible human-microbe interaction were found in the ACE genome. ACE is likely to have a low pathogenic risk, as is the case with other A. schindleri strains. These results provide a valuable reference for broadening the knowledge of the biology of Acinetobacter.	2017 07	Sigala, Juan-Carlos; Sigala, JC; Sigala; Suárez, Brisa Paola; Suárez, BP; Suárez; Lara, Alvaro R; Lara, AR; Lara; Borgne, Sylvie Le; Borgne, SL; Borgne; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Santamaría, Rosa Isela; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Martinez, Alfredo; Martinez, A; Martinez	Microbiology (Reading)
28530509	Genotyping Toxoplasma gondii with the B1 Gene in Naturally Infected Sheep from an Endemic Region in the Pacific Coast of Mexico.	Toxoplasma gondii is a protozoan parasite with a broad ecological valence, which has been detected in a wide range of hosts and landscapes. Although the genus is considered monospecific, in recent years it has been demonstrated to exhibit more genetic variability than previously known. In Mexico, there are few genotyping studies, which suggest that classical, autochthonous, and atypical strains are circulating. The goal of this study was to describe T. gondii genetic diversity in naturally infected sheep from Colima, Mexico. This is a good site to study ecological aspects of this parasite since it is located between the Nearctic and Neotropical ecozones and it includes domestic and wild risks for transmission. We analyzed 305 tissue samples of semicaptive sheep from six coastal and central zones of Colima and border zones of Michoacán. We used an 803 bp amplicon of the B1 gene to genotype T. gondii and seroprevalence was determined by ELISA. Indexes for genetic diversity and genetic differentiation were calculated and compared with reference strains from North America (NA) and South America (SA). Twenty-three tissue samples were positive for the B1 gene by PCR, which were sequenced. Crude prevalence was 24.4%. The genetic analysis showed 16 variable sites along the 803 bp region that grouped all sequences into 13 haplotypes in the phylogenetic tree. Bayesian and haplotype network analysis showed nine new B1-types, of which three were frequent and six had unique alleles. Comparisons among sequence sets revealed that the Mexican population had lower differentiation than SA and an intermediate genetic variability between South America and North America. The B1 gene analysis showed new T. gondii haplotypes in naturally infected sheep; therefore, this marker could be initially used in molecular screening studies to identify potentially virulent genotypes of this parasite using natural host samples directly.	2017 07	Martínez-Flores, Williams Arony; Martínez-Flores, WA; Martínez-Flores; Palma-García, José Manuel; Palma-García, JM; Palma-García; Caballero-Ortega, Heriberto; Caballero-Ortega, H; Caballero-Ortega; Del Viento-Camacho, Alejandra; Del Viento-Camacho, A; Del Viento-Camacho; López-Escamilla, Eduardo; López-Escamilla, E; López-Escamilla; Martínez-Hernández, Fernando; Martínez-Hernández, F; Martínez-Hernández; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Correa, Dolores; Correa, D; Correa; Maravilla, Pablo; Maravilla, P; Maravilla	Vector Borne Zoonotic Dis
28255691	The naringenin-induced exoproteome of Rhizobium etli CE3.	Flavonoids excreted by legume roots induce the expression of symbiotically essential nodulation (nod) genes in rhizobia, as well as that of specific protein export systems. In the bean microsymbiont Rhizobium etli CE3, nod genes are induced by the flavonoid naringenin. In this study, we identified 693 proteins in the exoproteome of strain CE3 grown in minimal medium with or without naringenin, with 101 and 100 exoproteins being exclusive to these conditions, respectively. Four hundred ninety-two (71%) of the extracellular proteins were found in both cultures. Of the total exoproteins identified, nearly 35% were also present in the intracellular proteome of R. etli bacteroids, 27% had N-terminal signal sequences and a significant number had previously demonstrated or possible novel roles in symbiosis, including bacterial cell surface modification, adhesins, proteins classified as MAMPs (microbe-associated molecular patterns), such as flagellin and EF-Tu, and several normally cytoplasmic proteins as Ndk and glycolytic enzymes, which are known to have extracellular "moonlighting" roles in bacteria that interact with eukaryotic cells. It is noteworthy that the transmembrane ß (1,2) glucan biosynthesis protein NdvB, an essential symbiotic protein in rhizobia, was found in the R. etli naringenin-induced exoproteome. In addition, potential binding sites for two nod-gene transcriptional regulators (NodD) occurred somewhat more frequently in the promoters of genes encoding naringenin-induced exoproteins in comparison to those ofexoproteins found in the control condition.	2017 Jul	Meneses, Niurka; Meneses, N; Meneses; Taboada, Hermenegildo; Taboada, H; Taboada; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Vargas, María Del Carmen; Vargas, MDC; Vargas; Buchs, Natasha; Buchs, N; Buchs; Heller, Manfred; Heller, M; Heller; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación	Arch Microbiol
28704543	The transcriptional regulator SsrB is involved in a molecular switch controlling virulence lifestyles of Salmonella.	The evolution of bacterial pathogenicity, heavily influenced by horizontal gene transfer, provides new virulence factors and regulatory connections that alter bacterial phenotypes. Salmonella pathogenicity islands 1 and 2 (SPI-1 and SPI-2) are chromosomal regions that were acquired at different evolutionary times and are essential for Salmonella virulence. In the intestine of mammalian hosts, Salmonella expresses the SPI-1 genes that mediate its invasion to the gut epithelium. Once inside the cells, Salmonella down-regulates the SPI-1 genes and induces the expression of the SPI-2 genes, which favor its intracellular replication. The mechanism by which the invasion machinery is deactivated following successful invasion of host cells is not known. Here, we show that the SPI-2 encoded transcriptional regulator SsrB, which positively controls SPI-2, acts as a dual regulator that represses expression of SPI-1 during intracellular stages of infection. The mechanism of this SPI-1 repression by SsrB was direct and acts upon the hilD and hilA regulatory genes. The phenotypic effect of this molecular switch activity was a significant reduction in invasion ability of S. enterica serovar Typhimurium while promoting the expression of genes required for intracellular survival. During mouse infections, Salmonella mutants lacking SsrB had high levels of hilA (SPI-1) transcriptional activity whereas introducing a constitutively active SsrB led to significant hilA repression. Thus, our results reveal a novel SsrB-mediated mechanism of transcriptional crosstalk between SPI-1 and SPI-2 that helps Salmonella transition to the intracellular lifestyle.	2017 Jul	Pérez-Morales, Deyanira; Pérez-Morales, D; Pérez-Morales; Banda, María M; Banda, MM; Banda; Chau, N Y Elizabeth; Chau, NYE; Chau; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; Ibarra, J Antonio; Ibarra, JA; Ibarra; Ilyas, Bushra; Ilyas, B; Ilyas; Coombes, Brian K; Coombes, BK; Coombes; Bustamante, Víctor H; Bustamante, VH; Bustamante	PLoS Pathog
28981567	Bioinformatics in Latin America and SoIBio impact, a tale of spin-off and expansion around genomes and protein structures.	Owing to the emerging impact of bioinformatics and computational biology, in this article, we present an overview of the history and current state of the research on this field in Latin America (LA). It will be difficult to cover without inequality all the efforts, initiatives and works that have happened for the past two decades in this vast region (that includes >19 million km2 and >600 million people). Despite the difficulty, we have done an analytical search looking for publications in the field made by researchers from 19 LA countries in the past 25 years. In this way, we find that research in bioinformatics in this region should develop twice to approach the average world scientific production in the field. We also found some of the pioneering scientists who initiated and led bioinformatics in the region and were promoters of this new scientific field. Our analysis also reveals that spin-off began around some specific areas within the biomolecular sciences: studies on genomes (anchored in the new generation of deep sequencing technologies, followed by developments in proteomics) and studies on protein structures (supported by three-dimensional structural determination technologies and their computational advancement). Finally, we show that the contribution to this endeavour of the Iberoamerican Society for Bioinformatics, founded in Mexico in 2009, has been significant, as it is a leading forum to join efforts of many scientists from LA interested in promoting research, training and education in bioinformatics.	2019 03	De Las Rivas, Javier; De Las Rivas, J; De Las Rivas; Bonavides-Martínez, Cesar; Bonavides-Martínez, C; Bonavides-Martínez; Campos-Laborie, Francisco Jose; Campos-Laborie, FJ; Campos-Laborie	Brief Bioinform
28639897	Gene signature based on degradome-related genes can predict distal metastasis in cervical cancer patients.	Cervical cancer is one of the leading causes of death in women worldwide, which mainly affects developing countries. The patients who suffer a recurrence and/or progression disease have a higher risk of developing distal metastases. Proteases comprising the degradome given its ability to promote cell growth, migration, and invasion of tissues play an important role during tumor development and progression. In this study, we used high-density microarrays and quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction to evaluate the degradome profile and their inhibitors in 112 samples of patients diagnosed with locally advanced cervical cancer. Clinical follow-up was done during a period of 3 years. Using a correlation analysis between the response to treatment and the development of metastasis, we established a molecular signature comprising eight degradome-related genes (FAM111B, FAM111A, CFB, PSMB8, PSMB9, CASP7, PRSS16, and CD74) with the ability to discriminate patients at risk of distal metastases. In conclusion, present results show that molecular signature obtained from degradome genes can predict the possibility of metastasis in patients with locally advanced cervical cancer.	2017 Jun	Fernandez-Retana, Jorge; Fernandez-Retana, J; Fernandez-Retana; Zamudio-Meza, Horacio; Zamudio-Meza, H; Zamudio-Meza; Rodriguez-Morales, Miguel; Rodriguez-Morales, M; Rodriguez-Morales; Pedroza-Torres, Abraham; Pedroza-Torres, A; Pedroza-Torres; Isla-Ortiz, David; Isla-Ortiz, D; Isla-Ortiz; Herrera, Luis; Herrera, L; Herrera; Jacobo-Herrera, Nadia; Jacobo-Herrera, N; Jacobo-Herrera; Peralta-Zaragoza, Oscar; Peralta-Zaragoza, O; Peralta-Zaragoza; López-Camarillo, César; López-Camarillo, C; López-Camarillo; Morales-Gonzalez, Fermin; Morales-Gonzalez, F; Morales-Gonzalez; Cantu de Leon, David; Cantu de Leon, D; Cantu de Leon; Pérez-Plasencia, Carlos; Pérez-Plasencia, C; Pérez-Plasencia	Tumour Biol
28596401	Draft Genome Sequence of <i>Pseudomonas chlororaphis</i> ATCC 9446, a Nonpathogenic Bacterium with Bioremediation and Industrial Potential.	<i>Pseudomonas chlororaphis</i> strain ATCC 9446 is a biocontrol-related organism. We report here its draft genome sequence assembled into 35 contigs consisting of 6,783,030 bp. Genome annotation predicted a total of 6,200 genes, 6,128 coding sequences, 81 pseudogenes, 58 tRNAs, 4 noncoding RNAs (ncRNAs), and 41 frameshifted genes.	2017 Jun	Moreno-Avitia, Fabian; Moreno-Avitia, F; Moreno-Avitia; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Utrilla, Jose; Utrilla, J; Utrilla; Bolívar, Francisco; Bolívar, F; Bolívar; Escalante, Adelfo; Escalante, A; Escalante	Genome Announc
28442446	Proteomic and transcriptomic analysis of saliva components from the hematophagous reduviid Triatoma pallidipennis.	Species belonging to the Triatominae subfamily are commonly associated with Chagas disease, as they are potential vectors of the parasite Trypanosoma cruzi. However, their saliva contains a cocktail of diverse anti-hemostatic proteins that prevent blood coagulation, vasodilation and platelet aggregation of blood; components with indisputable therapeutic potential. We performed a transcriptomic and proteomic analyses of salivary glands and protein spots from 2DE gels of milked saliva, respectively, from the Mexican Triatoma pallidipennis. Massive sequencing techniques were used to reveal this protein diversity. A total of 78 out of 233 transcripts were identified as proteins in the saliva, divided among 43 of 55 spots from 2DE gels of saliva, identified by LC-MS/MS analysis. Some of the annotated transcripts putatively code for anti-hemostatic proteins, which share sequence similarities with proteins previously described for South American triatomines. The most abundant as well as diverse transcripts and proteins in the saliva were the anti-hemostatic triabins. For the first time, a transcriptomic analysis uncovered other unrelated but relevant components in triatomines, including antimicrobial and thrombolytic polypeptides. Likewise, unique proteins such as the angiotensin-converting enzyme were identified not just in the salivary gland transcriptome but also at saliva proteome of this North American bloodsucking insect.	2017 06	Hernández-Vargas, María J; Hernández-Vargas, MJ; Hernández-Vargas; Gil, Jeovanis; Gil, J; Gil; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Pedraza-Escalona, Martha; Pedraza-Escalona, M; Pedraza-Escalona; Ortiz, Ernesto; Ortiz, E; Ortiz; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Alagón, Alejandro; Alagón, A; Alagón; Corzo, Gerardo; Corzo, G; Corzo	J Proteomics
28671650	CAPRRESI: Chimera Assembly by Plasmid Recovery and Restriction Enzyme Site Insertion.	Here, we present chimera assembly by plasmid recovery and restriction enzyme site insertion (CAPRRESI). CAPRRESI benefits from many strengths of the original plasmid recovery method and introduces restriction enzyme digestion to ease DNA ligation reactions (required for chimera assembly). For this protocol, users clone wildtype genes into the same plasmid (pUC18 or pUC19). After the in silico selection of amino acid sequence regions where chimeras should be assembled, users obtain all the synonym DNA sequences that encode them. Ad hoc Perl scripts enable users to determine all synonym DNA sequences. After this step, another Perl script searches for restriction enzyme sites on all synonym DNA sequences. This in silico analysis is also performed using the ampicillin resistance gene (ampR) found on pUC18/19 plasmids. Users design oligonucleotides inside synonym regions to disrupt wildtype and ampR genes by PCR. After obtaining and purifying complementary DNA fragments, restriction enzyme digestion is accomplished. Chimera assembly is achieved by ligating appropriate complementary DNA fragments. pUC18/19 vectors are selected for CAPRRESI because they offer technical advantages, such as small size (2,686 base pairs), high copy number, advantageous sequencing reaction features, and commercial availability. The usage of restriction enzymes for chimera assembly eliminates the need for DNA polymerases yielding blunt-ended products. CAPRRESI is a fast and low-cost method for fusing protein-coding genes.	2017 06	Santillán, Orlando; Santillán, O; Santillán; Ramírez-Romero, Miguel A; Ramírez-Romero, MA; Ramírez-Romero; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila	J Vis Exp
28475624	The functional microbiome of arthropods.	Many studies on the microbiome of animals have been reported but a comprehensive analysis is lacking. Here we present a meta-analysis on the microbiomes of arthropods and their terrestrial habitat, focusing on the functional profile of bacterial communities derived from metabolic traits that are essential for microbial life. We report a detailed analysis of probably the largest set of biochemically defined functional traits ever examined in microbiome studies. This work deals with the phylum proteobacteria, which is usually dominant in marine and terrestrial environments and covers all functions associated with microbiomes. The considerable variation in the distribution and abundance of proteobacteria in microbiomes has remained fundamentally unexplained. This analysis reveals discrete functional groups characteristic for adaptation to anaerobic conditions, which appear to be defined by environmental filtering of taxonomically related taxa. The biochemical diversification of the functional groups suggests an evolutionary trajectory in the structure of arthropods' microbiome, from metabolically versatile to specialized proteobacterial organisms that are adapted to complex environments such as the gut of social insects. Bacterial distribution in arthropods' microbiomes also shows taxonomic clusters that do not correspond to functional groups and may derive from other factors, including common contaminants of soil and reagents.	2017	Degli Esposti, Mauro; Degli Esposti, M; Degli Esposti; Martinez Romero, Esperanza; Martinez Romero, E; Martinez Romero	PLoS One
29382487	Displacers improve the selectivity of phosphopeptide enrichment by metal oxide affinity chromatography.	A key process in cell regulation is protein phosphorylation, which is catalyzed by protein kinases and phosphatases. However, phosphoproteomics studies are difficult because of the complexity of protein phosphorylation and the number of phosphorylation sites.	2017 May - Jun	Herrera, Yesenia; Herrera, Y; Herrera; Contreras, Sandra; Contreras, S; Contreras; Hernández, Magdalena; Hernández, M; Hernández; Álvarez, Laura; Álvarez, L; Álvarez; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara	Bol Med Hosp Infant Mex
27566552	Experimental conditions improving in-solution target enrichment for ancient DNA.	High-throughput sequencing has dramatically fostered ancient DNA research in recent years. Shotgun sequencing, however, does not necessarily appear as the best-suited approach due to the extensive contamination of samples with exogenous environmental microbial DNA. DNA capture-enrichment methods represent cost-effective alternatives that increase the sequencing focus on the endogenous fraction, whether it is from mitochondrial or nuclear genomes, or parts thereof. Here, we explored experimental parameters that could impact the efficacy of MYbaits in-solution capture assays of ~5000 nuclear loci or the whole genome. We found that varying quantities of the starting probes had only moderate effect on capture outcomes. Starting DNA, probe tiling, the hybridization temperature and the proportion of endogenous DNA all affected the assay, however. Additionally, probe features such as their GC content, number of CpG dinucleotides, sequence complexity and entropy and self-annealing properties need to be carefully addressed during the design stage of the capture assay. The experimental conditions and probe molecular features identified in this study will improve the recovery of genetic information extracted from degraded and ancient remains.	2017 May	Cruz-Dávalos, Diana I; Cruz-Dávalos, DI; Cruz-Dávalos; Llamas, Bastien; Llamas, B; Llamas; Gaunitz, Charleen; Gaunitz, C; Gaunitz; Fages, Antoine; Fages, A; Fages; Gamba, Cristina; Gamba, C; Gamba; Soubrier, Julien; Soubrier, J; Soubrier; Librado, Pablo; Librado, P; Librado; Seguin-Orlando, Andaine; Seguin-Orlando, A; Seguin-Orlando; Pruvost, Mélanie; Pruvost, M; Pruvost; Alfarhan, Ahmed H; Alfarhan, AH; Alfarhan; Alquraishi, Saleh A; Alquraishi, SA; Alquraishi; Al-Rasheid, Khaled A S; Al-Rasheid, KAS; Al-Rasheid; Scheu, Amelie; Scheu, A; Scheu; Beneke, Norbert; Beneke, N; Beneke; Ludwig, Arne; Ludwig, A; Ludwig; Cooper, Alan; Cooper, A; Cooper; Willerslev, Eske; Willerslev, E; Willerslev; Orlando, Ludovic; Orlando, L; Orlando	Mol Ecol Resour
28438469	Regulation of conjugative transfer of plasmids and integrative conjugative elements.	Horizontal gene transfer has been recognized as one of the principal contributors to bacterial evolution and diversification. One of the mechanisms involved in this process is conjugative transfer of plasmids and Integrative Conjugative Elements (ICEs). Plasmids and ICEs often encode traits beneficial for bacterial survival in specific environments, or for the establishment of symbiosis or pathogenesis, in addition to genes allowing conjugative transfer. In this review, we analyze the mechanisms that regulate the expression of conjugative transfer genes. For traits such as antibiotic or metal resistance, the compounds involved may induce conjugative transfer directly, while symbiosis and pathogenesis are modulated by quorum-sensing and/or signal molecules released by the host. However, multiple layers of regulation are usually involved in modulating transfer. In addition to the plasmid-encoded regulatory elements, conjugation seems to be regulated by what we have labeled as the "internal environment", defined by the interaction between the host chromosome and the plasmids or ICEs. Another regulatory level depends on the "external environment", which affects conjugative transfer due to the composition and conditions of the community.	2017 05	Bañuelos-Vazquez, Luis Alfredo; Bañuelos-Vazquez, LA; Bañuelos-Vazquez; Torres Tejerizo, Gonzalo; Torres Tejerizo, G; Torres Tejerizo; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom	Plasmid
29382488	The dawn and the first twenty-five years of proteomics in Mexico: a personal chronicle.	This review does not aim to be an up-to-date of proteomics in Mexico; it simply tries to trace its development, exposing the story of the researchers, laboratories and some institutions that have contributed to the establishment and development of this science in Mexico.	2017 May - Jun	Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara	Bol Med Hosp Infant Mex
28605770	Improving biocuration of microRNAs in diseases: a case study in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small and non-coding RNA molecules that inhibit gene expression posttranscriptionally. They play important roles in several biological processes, and in recent years there has been an interest in studying how they are related to the pathogenesis of diseases. Although there are already some databases that contain information for miRNAs and their relation with illnesses, their curation represents a significant challenge due to the amount of information that is being generated every day. In particular, respiratory diseases are poorly documented in databases, despite the fact that they are of increasing concern regarding morbidity, mortality and economic impacts. In this work, we present the results that we obtained in the BioCreative Interactive Track (IAT), using a semiautomatic approach for improving biocuration of miRNAs related to diseases. Our procedures will be useful to complement databases that contain this type of information. We adapted the OntoGene text mining pipeline and the ODIN curation system in a full-text corpus of scientific publications concerning one specific respiratory disease: idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, the most common and aggressive of the idiopathic interstitial cases of pneumonia. We curated 823 miRNA text snippets and found a total of 246 miRNAs related to this disease based on our semiautomatic approach with the system OntoGene/ODIN. The biocuration throughput improved by a factor of 12 compared with traditional manual biocuration. A significant advantage of our semiautomatic pipeline is that it can be applied to obtain the miRNAs of all the respiratory diseases and offers the possibility to be used for other illnesses.	2017 01	Balderas-Martínez, Yalbi Itzel; Balderas-Martínez, YI; Balderas-Martínez; Rinaldi, Fabio; Rinaldi, F; Rinaldi; Contreras, Gabriela; Contreras, G; Contreras; Solano-Lira, Hilda; Solano-Lira, H; Solano-Lira; Sánchez-Pérez, Mishael; Sánchez-Pérez, M; Sánchez-Pérez; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Selman, Moisés; Selman, M; Selman; Pardo, Annie; Pardo, A; Pardo	Database (Oxford)
28419102	Effect of genomic distance on coexpression of coregulated genes in E. coli.	In prokaryotes, genomic distance is a feature that in addition to coregulation affects coexpression. Several observations, such as genomic clustering of highly coexpressed small regulons, support the idea that coexpression behavior of coregulated genes is affected by the distance between the coregulated genes. However, the specific contribution of distance in addition to coregulation in determining the degree of coexpression has not yet been studied systematically. In this work, we exploit the rich information in RegulonDB to study how the genomic distance between coregulated genes affects their degree of coexpression, measured by pairwise similarity of expression profiles obtained under a large number of conditions. We observed that, in general, coregulated genes display higher degrees of coexpression as they are more closely located on the genome. This contribution of genomic distance in determining the degree of coexpression was relatively small compared to the degree of coexpression that was determined by the tightness of the coregulation (degree of overlap of regulatory programs) but was shown to be evolutionary constrained. In addition, the distance effect was sufficient to guarantee coexpression of coregulated genes that are located at very short distances, irrespective of their tightness of coregulation. This is partly but definitely not always because the close distance is also the cause of the coregulation. In cases where it is not, we hypothesize that the effect of the distance on coexpression could be caused by the fact that coregulated genes closely located to each other are also relatively more equidistantly located from their common TF and therefore subject to more similar levels of TF molecules. The absolute genomic distance of the coregulated genes to their common TF-coding gene tends to be less important in determining the degree of coexpression. Our results pinpoint the importance of taking into account the combined effect of distance and coregulation when studying prokaryotic coexpression and transcriptional regulation.	2017	Pannier, Lucia; Pannier, L; Pannier; Merino, Enrique; Merino, E; Merino; Marchal, Kathleen; Marchal, K; Marchal; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	PLoS One
28167520	A New Essential Cell Division Protein in Caulobacter crescentus.	Bacterial cell division is a complex process that relies on a multiprotein complex composed of a core of widely conserved and generally essential proteins and on accessory proteins that vary in number and identity in different bacteria. The assembly of this complex and, particularly, the initiation of constriction are regulated processes that have come under intensive study. In this work, we characterize the function of DipI, a protein conserved in <i>Alphaproteobacteria</i> and <i>Betaproteobacteria</i> that is essential in <i>Caulobacter crescentus</i> Our results show that DipI is a periplasmic protein that is recruited late to the division site and that it is required for the initiation of constriction. The recruitment of the conserved cell division proteins is not affected by the absence of DipI, but localization of DipI to the division site occurs only after a mature divisome has formed. Yeast two-hybrid analysis showed that DipI strongly interacts with the FtsQLB complex, which has been recently implicated in regulating constriction initiation. A possible role of DipI in this process is discussed.<b>IMPORTANCE</b> Bacterial cell division is a complex process for which most bacterial cells assemble a multiprotein complex that consists of conserved proteins and of accessory proteins that differ among bacterial groups. In this work, we describe a new cell division protein (DipI) present only in a group of bacteria but essential in <i>Caulobacter crescentus</i> Cells devoid of DipI cannot constrict. Although a mature divisome is required for DipI recruitment, DipI is not needed for recruiting other division proteins. These results, together with the interaction of DipI with a protein complex that has been suggested to regulate cell wall synthesis during division, suggest that DipI may be part of the regulatory mechanism that controls constriction initiation.	2017 04	Osorio, Aurora; Osorio, A; Osorio; Camarena, Laura; Camarena, L; Camarena; Cevallos, Miguel Angel; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Poggio, Sebastian; Poggio, S; Poggio	J Bacteriol
28096304	Antibiotic Cycling and Antibiotic Mixing: Which One Best Mitigates Antibiotic Resistance?	Can we exploit our burgeoning understanding of molecular evolution to slow the progress of drug resistance? One role of an infection clinician is exactly that: to foresee trajectories to resistance during antibiotic treatment and to hinder that evolutionary course. But can this be done at a hospital-wide scale? Clinicians and theoreticians tried to when they proposed two conflicting behavioral strategies that are expected to curb resistance evolution in the clinic, these are known as "antibiotic cycling" and "antibiotic mixing." However, the accumulated data from clinical trials, now approaching 4 million patient days of treatment, is too variable for cycling or mixing to be deemed successful. The former implements the restriction and prioritization of different antibiotics at different times in hospitals in a manner said to "cycle" between them. In antibiotic mixing, appropriate antibiotics are allocated to patients but randomly. Mixing results in no correlation, in time or across patients, in the drugs used for treatment which is why theorists saw this as an optimal behavioral strategy. So while cycling and mixing were proposed as ways of controlling evolution, we show there is good reason why clinical datasets cannot choose between them: by re-examining the theoretical literature we show prior support for the theoretical optimality of mixing was misplaced. Our analysis is consistent with a pattern emerging in data: neither cycling or mixing is a priori better than the other at mitigating selection for antibiotic resistance in the clinic.	2017 04	Beardmore, Robert Eric; Beardmore, RE; Beardmore; Peña-Miller, Rafael; Peña-Miller, R; Peña-Miller; Gori, Fabio; Gori, F; Gori; Iredell, Jonathan; Iredell, J; Iredell	Mol Biol Evol
28428300	Draft Genome Sequence of <i>Enterococcus casseliflavus</i> PAVET15 Obtained from the Oviduct Infection of the Cattle Tick (<i>Rhipicephalus microplus</i>) in Jiutepec, Morelos, Mexico.	<i>Enterococcus</i> spp. are Gram-positive lactic acid-producing bacteria found in the intestinal tracts of animals, like mammals, birds, and arthropods. <i>Enterococcus</i> spp. may cause oportunistic infections in vertebrate and invertebrate hosts. We report here the draft genome sequence of <i>Enterococcus casseliflavus</i> PAVET15 containing 3,722,480 bp, with 80 contigs, an <i>N</i><sub>50</sub> of 179,476 bp, and 41.93% G+C content.	2017 Apr	Cossío-Bayúgar, R; Cossío-Bayúgar, R; Cossío-Bayúgar; Miranda-Miranda, E; Miranda-Miranda, E; Miranda-Miranda; Arreguín-Pérez, C A; Arreguín-Pérez, CA; Arreguín-Pérez; Lozano, L; Lozano, L; Lozano; Peréz de la Rosa, D; Peréz de la Rosa, D; Peréz de la Rosa; Rocha-Martínez, M K; Rocha-Martínez, MK; Rocha-Martínez; Bravo-Díaz, M A; Bravo-Díaz, MA; Bravo-Díaz; Sachman-Ruiz, B; Sachman-Ruiz, B; Sachman-Ruiz	Genome Announc
28365731	Strategies towards digital and semi-automated curation in RegulonDB.	Experimentally generated biological information needs to be organized and structured in order to become meaningful knowledge. However, the rate at which new information is being published makes manual curation increasingly unable to cope. Devising new curation strategies that leverage upon data mining and text analysis is, therefore, a promising avenue to help life science databases to cope with the deluge of novel information. In this article, we describe the integration of text mining technologies in the curation pipeline of the RegulonDB database, and discuss how the process can enhance the productivity of the curators. Specifically, a named entity recognition approach is used to pre-annotate terms referring to a set of domain entities which are potentially relevant for the curation process. The annotated documents are presented to the curator, who, thanks to a custom-designed interface, can select sentences containing specific types of entities, thus restricting the amount of text that needs to be inspected. Additionally, a module capable of computing semantic similarity between sentences across the entire collection of articles to be curated is being integrated in the system. We tested the module using three sets of scientific articles and six domain experts. All these improvements are gradually enabling us to obtain a high throughput curation process with the same quality as manual curation.	2017 01	Rinaldi, Fabio; Rinaldi, F; Rinaldi; Lithgow, Oscar; Lithgow, O; Lithgow; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Solano, Hilda; Solano, H; Solano; Lopez, Alejandra; Lopez, A; Lopez; Muñiz Rascado, Luis José; Muñiz Rascado, LJ; Muñiz Rascado; Ishida-Gutiérrez, Cecilia; Ishida-Gutiérrez, C; Ishida-Gutiérrez; Méndez-Cruz, Carlos-Francisco; Méndez-Cruz, CF; Méndez-Cruz; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Database (Oxford)
28009086	1,2-Diacylglycerol choline phosphotransferase catalyzes the final step in the unique Treponema denticola phosphatidylcholine biosynthesis pathway.	Treponema denticola synthesizes phosphatidylcholine through a licCA-dependent CDP-choline pathway identified only in the genus Treponema. However, the mechanism of conversion of CDP-choline to phosphatidylcholine remained unclear. We report here characterization of TDE0021 (herein designated cpt) encoding a 1,2-diacylglycerol choline phosphotransferase homologous to choline phosphotransferases that catalyze the final step of the highly conserved Kennedy pathway for phosphatidylcholine synthesis in eukaryotes. T. denticola Cpt catalyzed in vitro phosphatidylcholine formation from CDP-choline and diacylglycerol, and full activity required divalent manganese. Allelic replacement mutagenesis of cpt in T. denticola resulted in abrogation of phosphatidylcholine synthesis. T. denticola Cpt complemented a Saccharomyces cerevisiae CPT1 mutant, and expression of the entire T. denticola LicCA-Cpt pathway in E. coli resulted in phosphatidylcholine biosynthesis. Our findings show that T. denticola possesses a unique phosphatidylcholine synthesis pathway combining conserved prokaryotic choline kinase and CTP:phosphocholine cytidylyltransferase activities with a 1,2-diacylglycerol choline phosphotransferase that is common in eukaryotes. Other than in a subset of mammalian host-associated Treponema that includes T. pallidum, this pathway is found in neither bacteria nor Archaea. Molecular dating analysis of the Cpt gene family suggests that a horizontal gene transfer event introduced this gene into an ancestral Treponema well after its divergence from other spirochetes.	2017 03	Vences-Guzmán, Miguel Ángel; Vences-Guzmán, MÁ; Vences-Guzmán; Paula Goetting-Minesky, M; Paula Goetting-Minesky, M; Paula Goetting-Minesky; Guan, Ziqiang; Guan, Z; Guan; Castillo-Ramirez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramirez, S; Castillo-Ramirez; Córdoba-Castro, Luz América; Córdoba-Castro, LA; Córdoba-Castro; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Christopher Fenno, J; Christopher Fenno, J; Christopher Fenno	Mol Microbiol
27852447	A polyclonal outbreak of bloodstream infections by Enterococcus faecium in patients with hematologic malignancies.	Enterococcus faecium causes bloodstream infection (BSI) in patients with hematologic malignancies (HMs). We studied the clinical features and outcomes of patients with HM with vancomycin-sensitive E faecium (VSE) and vancomycin-resistant E faecium (VRE) BSI and determined the genetic relatedness of isolates and circumstances associated with the upsurge of E faecium BSI.	2017 Mar	Alatorre-Fernández, Pamela; Alatorre-Fernández, P; Alatorre-Fernández; Mayoral-Terán, Claudia; Mayoral-Terán, C; Mayoral-Terán; Velázquez-Acosta, Consuelo; Velázquez-Acosta, C; Velázquez-Acosta; Franco-Rodríguez, Cecilia; Franco-Rodríguez, C; Franco-Rodríguez; Flores-Moreno, Karen; Flores-Moreno, K; Flores-Moreno; Cevallos, Miguel Ángel; Cevallos, MÁ; Cevallos; López-Vidal, Yolanda; López-Vidal, Y; López-Vidal; Volkow-Fernández, Patricia; Volkow-Fernández, P; Volkow-Fernández	Am J Infect Control
28302777	Complete Genome Sequences of Three <i>Rhizobium gallicum</i> Symbionts Associated with Common Bean (<i>Phaseolus vulgaris</i>).	The whole-genome sequences of three strains of <i>Rhizobium gallicum</i> reported here support the concept that the distinct nodulation host ranges displayed by the symbiovars gallicum and phaseoli can be largely explained by different symbiotic plasmids.	2017 Mar	Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Santamaría, Rosa Isela; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Pérez-Carrascal, Olga María; Pérez-Carrascal, OM; Pérez-Carrascal; Acosta, José Luis; Acosta, JL; Acosta; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Juárez, Soledad; Juárez, S; Juárez; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Cevallos, Miguel Ángel; Cevallos, MÁ; Cevallos; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Miranda, Fabiola; Miranda, F; Miranda; Ormeño, Ernesto; Ormeño, E; Ormeño; González, Víctor; González, V; González	Genome Announc
28286733	Premammalian origin of the sperm-specific Slo3 channel.	Slo3 is a sperm-specific potassium (K<sup>+</sup>) channel essential for male fertility. Slo3 channels have so far been considered to be specific to mammals. Through exploratory genomics, we identified the <i>Slo3</i> gene in the genome of terrestrial (birds and reptiles) and aquatic (fish) vertebrates. In the case of fish, <i>Slo3</i> has undergone several episodes of gene loss. Transcriptomic analysis showed that vertebrate Slo3 transcript orthologues are predominantly expressed in testis, in concordance with the mammalian Slo3. We conclude that the <i>Slo3</i> gene arose during the radiation of early vertebrates, much earlier than previously thought. Our findings add to the growing evidence indicating that the phylogenetic profiles of sperm-specific channels are intermittent throughout metazoan evolution, which probably reflects the adaptation of sperm to different ionic milieus and fertilization environments.	2017 Mar	Vicens, Alberto; Vicens, A; Vicens; Andrade-López, Karla; Andrade-López, K; Andrade-López; Cortez, Diego; Cortez, D; Cortez; Gutiérrez, Rosa María; Gutiérrez, RM; Gutiérrez; Treviño, Claudia L; Treviño, CL; Treviño	FEBS Open Bio
28228131	Whole genome sequencing of one complex pedigree illustrates challenges with genomic medicine.	Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has risen as a useful tool for precision medicine by providing a standardized vocabulary of phenotypic abnormalities to describe presentations of human pathologies; however, there have been relatively few reports combining whole genome sequencing (WGS) and HPO, especially in the context of structural variants.	2017 02	Fang, Han; Fang, H; Fang; Wu, Yiyang; Wu, Y; Wu; Yang, Hui; Yang, H; Yang; Yoon, Margaret; Yoon, M; Yoon; Jiménez-Barrón, Laura T; Jiménez-Barrón, LT; Jiménez-Barrón; Mittelman, David; Mittelman, D; Mittelman; Robison, Reid; Robison, R; Robison; Wang, Kai; Wang, K; Wang; Lyon, Gholson J; Lyon, GJ; Lyon	BMC Med Genomics
28261241	Analysis of Plant Pan-Genomes and Transcriptomes with GET_HOMOLOGUES-EST, a Clustering Solution for Sequences of the Same Species.	The pan-genome of a species is defined as the union of all the genes and non-coding sequences found in all its individuals. However, constructing a pan-genome for plants with large genomes is daunting both in sequencing cost and the scale of the required computational analysis. A more affordable alternative is to focus on the genic repertoire by using transcriptomic data. Here, the software GET_HOMOLOGUES-EST was benchmarked with genomic and RNA-seq data of 19 <i>Arabidopsis thaliana</i> ecotypes and then applied to the analysis of transcripts from 16 <i>Hordeum vulgare</i> genotypes. The goal was to sample their pan-genomes and classify sequences as core, if detected in all accessions, or accessory, when absent in some of them. The resulting sequence clusters were used to simulate pan-genome growth, and to compile Average Nucleotide Identity matrices that summarize intra-species variation. Although transcripts were found to under-estimate pan-genome size by at least 10%, we concluded that clusters of expressed sequences can recapitulate phylogeny and reproduce two properties observed in <i>A. thaliana</i> gene models: accessory loci show lower expression and higher non-synonymous substitution rates than core genes. Finally, accessory sequences were observed to preferentially encode transposon components in both species, plus disease resistance genes in cultivated barleys, and a variety of protein domains from other families that appear frequently associated with presence/absence variation in the literature. These results demonstrate that pan-genome analyses are useful to explore germplasm diversity.	2017	Contreras-Moreira, Bruno; Contreras-Moreira, B; Contreras-Moreira; Cantalapiedra, Carlos P; Cantalapiedra, CP; Cantalapiedra; García-Pereira, María J; García-Pereira, MJ; García-Pereira; Gordon, Sean P; Gordon, SP; Gordon; Vogel, John P; Vogel, JP; Vogel; Igartua, Ernesto; Igartua, E; Igartua; Casas, Ana M; Casas, AM; Casas; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa	Front Plant Sci
28261262	The Evolutionary Relationship between Alternative Splicing and Gene Duplication.	The protein diversity that exists today has resulted from various evolutionary processes. It is well known that gene duplication (GD) along with the accumulation of mutations are responsible, among other factors, for an increase in the number of different proteins. The gene structure in eukaryotes requires the removal of non-coding sequences, introns, to produce mature mRNAs. This process, known as <i>cis</i>-splicing, referred to here as splicing, is regulated by several factors which can lead to numerous splicing arrangements, commonly designated as alternative splicing (AS). AS, producing several transcripts isoforms form a single gene, also increases the protein diversity. However, the evolution and manner for increasing protein variation differs between AS and GD. An important question is how are patterns of AS affected after a GD event. Here, we review the current knowledge of AS and GD, focusing on their evolutionary relationship. These two processes are now considered the main contributors to the increasing protein diversity and therefore their relationship is a relevant, yet understudied, area of evolutionary study.	2017	Iñiguez, Luis P; Iñiguez, LP; Iñiguez; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	Front Genet
28017900	The <sup>95</sup><sup>Δ</sup>G mutation in the 5'untranslated region of the norA gene increases efflux activity in Staphylococcus epidermidis isolates.	In the Staphylococcus aureus ATCC25923 strain, the flqB mutation in the 5'untranslated region (5'UTR) of the norA gene causes increased norA mRNA expression and high efflux activity (HEA). The involvement of the norA gene 5'UTR in HEA has not been explored in S. epidermidis; therefore, we examined the function of this region in S. epidermidis clinical isolates. The selection of isolates with HEA was performed based on ethidium bromide (EtBr) MIC values and efflux efficiency (EF) using the semi-automated fluorometric method. The function of the 5'UTR was studied by quantifying the levels of norA expression (RT-qPCR) and by identifying 5'UTR mutations by sequence analysis. Only 10 isolates from a total of 165 (6.1%) had HEA (EtBr MIC = 300 μg/ml and EF ranged from 48.4 to 97.2%). Eight of 10 isolates with HEA had the 5'UTR <sup>95</sup><sup>Δ</sup>G mutation. Isolates carrying the <sup>95</sup><sup>Δ</sup>G mutation had higher levels of norA expression compared with those that did not. To corroborate that the <sup>95</sup><sup>Δ</sup>G mutation is involved in HEA, a strain adapted to EtBr was obtained in vitro. This strain also presented the <sup>95</sup><sup>Δ</sup>G mutation and had a high level of norA expression and EF, indicating that the <sup>95</sup><sup>Δ</sup>G mutation is important for the HEA phenotype. The <sup>95</sup><sup>Δ</sup>G mutation produces a different structure in the Shine-Dalgarno region, which may promote better translation of norA mRNA. To our knowledge, this is the first report to demonstrate the participation of the 5'UTR <sup>95</sup><sup>Δ</sup>G mutation of the norA gene in the HEA phenotype of S. epidermidis isolates. Here, we propose that the efflux of EtBr is caused by an increment in the transcription and/or translation of the norA gene.	2017 Feb	García-Gómez, Elizabeth; García-Gómez, E; García-Gómez; Jaso-Vera, Marcos E; Jaso-Vera, ME; Jaso-Vera; Juárez-Verdayes, Marco A; Juárez-Verdayes, MA; Juárez-Verdayes; Alcántar-Curiel, María D; Alcántar-Curiel, MD; Alcántar-Curiel; Zenteno, Juan C; Zenteno, JC; Zenteno; Betanzos-Cabrera, Gabriel; Betanzos-Cabrera, G; Betanzos-Cabrera; Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta; Rodríguez-Martínez, Sandra; Rodríguez-Martínez, S; Rodríguez-Martínez; Cancino-Díaz, Mario E; Cancino-Díaz, ME; Cancino-Díaz; Jan-Roblero, Janet; Jan-Roblero, J; Jan-Roblero; Cancino-Diaz, Juan C; Cancino-Diaz, JC; Cancino-Diaz	Microb Pathog
28126941	Genome Sequence of the Symbiotic Type Strain Rhizobium tibeticum CCBAU85039T.	Rhizobium tibeticum was originally isolated from root nodules of Trigonella archiducis-nicolai grown in Tibet, China. This species is also able to nodulate Medicago sativa and Phaseolus vulgaris The whole-genome sequence of the type strain, R. tibeticum CCBAU85039<sup>T</sup>, is reported in this study.	2017 Jan	Torres Tejerizo, Gonzalo; Torres Tejerizo, G; Torres Tejerizo; Wibberg, Daniel; Wibberg, D; Wibberg; Winkler, Anika; Winkler, A; Winkler; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Niehaus, Karsten; Niehaus, K; Niehaus; Pühler, Alfred; Pühler, A; Pühler; Kalinowski, Jörn; Kalinowski, J; Kalinowski; Lagares, Antonio; Lagares, A; Lagares; Schlüter, Andreas; Schlüter, A; Schlüter; Pistorio, Mariano; Pistorio, M; Pistorio	Genome Announc
27746255	Lysine acetylation and cancer: A proteomics perspective.	Lysine acetylation is a reversible modification controlled by two groups of enzymes: lysine acetyltransferases (KATs) and lysine deacetylases (KDACs). Acetylated lysine residues are recognized by bromodomains, a family of evolutionarily conserved domains. The use of high-resolution mass spectrometry-based proteomics, in combination with the enrichment of acetylated peptides through immunoprecipitation with anti-acetyl-lysine antibodies, has expanded the number of acetylated proteins from histones and a few nuclear proteins to more than 2000 human proteins. Because acetylation targets almost all cellular processes, this modification has been associated with cancer. Several KATs, KDACs and bromodomain-containing proteins have been linked to cancer development. Many small molecules targeting some of these proteins have been or are being tested as potential cancer therapies. The stoichiometry of lysine acetylation has not been explored in cancer, representing a promising field in which to increase our knowledge of how this modification is affected in cancer. In this review, we will focus on the strategies that can be used to go deeper in the characterization of the protein lysine acetylation emphasizing in cancer research.	2017 01	Gil, Jeovanis; Gil, J; Gil; Ramírez-Torres, Alberto; Ramírez-Torres, A; Ramírez-Torres; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara	J Proteomics
29083947	A deeper mining on the protein composition of VA-MENGOC-BC®: An OMV-based vaccine against N. meningitidis serogroup B and C.	The protein composition of an Outer Membrane Vesicle (OMV) preparation that constitutes the active pharmaceutical ingredient of VA-MENGOC-BC®, an effective vaccine against Neisseria meningitidis serogroups B, and C is presented. This preparation has a high lipid content and five abundant membrane proteins (FetA, PorA, PorB, RmpM, and Opc), constituting approximately 70% of the total protein mass. The protein composition was determined by combining the use of the Hexapeptide Ligand Library and an orthogonal tandem fractionation of tryptic peptides by reverse-phase chromatography at alkaline and acid pH. This approach equalizes the concentration of tryptic peptides derived from low- and high-abundance proteins as well as considerably simplifying the number of peptides analyzed by LC-MS/MS, enhancing the possibility of identifying low-abundance species. Fifty-one percent of the proteins originally annotated as membrane proteins in the genome of the MC58 strain were identified. One hundred and sixty-eight low-abundance cytosolic proteins presumably occluded within OMV were also identified. Four (NadA, NUbp, GNA2091, and fHbp), out of the five antigens constituting the Bexsero® vaccine, were detected in this OMV preparation. In particular, fHbp is also the active principle of the Trumenba® vaccine developed by Pfizer. The HpuA and HpuB gene products (not annotated in the MC58 genome) were identified in the CU385 strain, a clinical isolate that is used to produce this OMV. Considering the proteins identified here and previous work done by our group, the protein catalogue of this OMV preparation was extended to 266 different protein species.	2017 11	Masforrol, Yordanka; Masforrol, Y; Masforrol; Gil, Jeovanis; Gil, J; Gil; García, Darien; García, D; García; Noda, Jesús; Noda, J; Noda; Ramos, Yassel; Ramos, Y; Ramos; Betancourt, Lázaro; Betancourt, L; Betancourt; Guirola, Osmany; Guirola, O; Guirola; González, Sonia; González, S; González; Acevedo, Boris; Acevedo, B; Acevedo; Besada, Vladimir; Besada, V; Besada; Reyes, Osvaldo; Reyes, O; Reyes; González, Luis Javier; González, LJ; González	Hum Vaccin Immunother
29106540	A Journey across Genomes Uncovers the Origin of Ubiquinone in Cyanobacteria.	Ubiquinone (Q) is an isoprenoid quinone that functions as membrane electron carrier in mitochondria and bacterial organisms belonging to the alpha, beta, and gamma class of proteobacteria. The biosynthesis of Q follows various biochemical steps catalyzed by diverse proteins that are, in general, homologous in mitochondria and bacteria. Nonorthologous proteins can also contribute to some biochemical steps as originally uncovered in Escherichia coli, which is the best studied organism for Q biosynthesis in prokaryotes. However, the origin of the biosynthetic pathway of Q has remained obscure. Here, I show by genome analysis that Q biosynthesis originated in cyanobacteria and then diversified in anaerobic alpha proteobacteria which have extant relatives in members of the Rhodospirillaceae family. Two distinct biochemical pathways diverged when ambient oxygen reached current levels on earth, one leading to the well-known series of Ubi genes found in E. coli, and the other containing CoQ proteins originally found in eukaryotes. Extant alpha proteobacteria show Q biosynthesis pathways that are more similar to that present in mitochondria than to that of E. coli. Hence, this work clarifies not only the origin but also the evolution of Q biosynthesis from bacteria to mitochondria.	2017 Nov	Degli Esposti, Mauro; Degli Esposti, M; Degli Esposti	Genome Biol Evol
28883130	Draft Genome Sequence of a <i>Pseudomonas aeruginosa</i> NA04 Bacterium Isolated from an Entomopathogenic Nematode.	We report the draft genome sequence of Gram-negative bacterium <i>Pseudomonas aeruginosa</i> NA04, isolated from the entomopathogenic nematode <i>Heterorhabditis indica</i> MOR03. The draft genome consists of 54 contigs, a length of 6.37 Mb, and a G+C content 66.49%.	2017 Sep	Salgado-Morales, Rosalba; Salgado-Morales, R; Salgado-Morales; Rivera-Gómez, Nancy; Rivera-Gómez, N; Rivera-Gómez; Lozano-Aguirre Beltrán, Luis Fernando; Lozano-Aguirre Beltrán, LF; Lozano-Aguirre Beltrán; Hernández-Mendoza, Armando; Hernández-Mendoza, A; Hernández-Mendoza; Dantán-González, Edgar; Dantán-González, E; Dantán-González	Genome Announc
29220462	First steps in automatic summarization of transcription factor properties for RegulonDB: classification of sentences about structural domains and regulated processes.	RegulonDB, http://regulondb.ccg.unam.mx.	2017 01	Méndez-Cruz, Carlos-Francisco; Méndez-Cruz, CF; Méndez-Cruz; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Mejía-Almonte, Citlalli; Mejía-Almonte, C; Mejía-Almonte; Castillo-Villalba, Marco-Polo; Castillo-Villalba, MP; Castillo-Villalba; Muñiz-Rascado, Luis-José; Muñiz-Rascado, LJ; Muñiz-Rascado; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Database (Oxford)
28546491	Genome Sequence of <i>Acinetobacter lactucae</i> OTEC-02, Isolated from Hydrocarbon-Contaminated Soil.	<i>Acinetobacter lactucae</i> OTEC-02 was isolated from hydrocarbon-contaminated soils. Whole-genome sequence analysis was performed to learn more about the strain's ability to degrade different types of recalcitrant toxic monoaromatic hydrocarbons. The genome of this bacterium revealed its genomic properties and versatile metabolic features, as well as a complete prophage.	2017 May	Rogel-Hernandez, Marco Antonio; Rogel-Hernandez, MA; Rogel-Hernandez; Guerrero, Gabriela; Guerrero, G; Guerrero; Rincón-Molina, Clara Ivette; Rincón-Molina, CI; Rincón-Molina; Ruiz-Valdiviezo, Víctor Manuel; Ruiz-Valdiviezo, VM; Ruiz-Valdiviezo; Cisneros-Pérez, Crhistian; Cisneros-Pérez, C; Cisneros-Pérez; Castañón-Gonzalez, José Humberto; Castañón-Gonzalez, JH; Castañón-Gonzalez; López-López, Aline; López-López, A; López-López; Martinez-Romero, Esperanza; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Rincón-Rosales, Reiner; Rincón-Rosales, R; Rincón-Rosales	Genome Announc
28232434	Genome Sequence of Enterotoxigenic <i>Escherichia coli</i> Strain FMU073332.	Enterotoxigenic <i>Escherichia coli</i> (ETEC) is an important cause of bacterial diarrheal illness, affecting practically every population worldwide, and was estimated to cause 120,800 deaths in 2010. Here, we report the genome sequence of ETEC strain FMU073332, isolated from a 25-month-old girl from Tlaltizapán, Morelos, México.	2017 Feb	Saldaña-Ahuactzi, Zeus; Saldaña-Ahuactzi, Z; Saldaña-Ahuactzi; Cruz-Córdova, Ariadnna; Cruz-Córdova, A; Cruz-Córdova; Rodea, Gerardo E; Rodea, GE; Rodea; Porta, Helena; Porta, H; Porta; Navarro-Ocaña, Armando; Navarro-Ocaña, A; Navarro-Ocaña; Eslava-Campos, Carlos; Eslava-Campos, C; Eslava-Campos; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Xicohtencatl-Cortes, Juan; Xicohtencatl-Cortes, J; Xicohtencatl-Cortes	Genome Announc
27899573	The EcoCyc database: reflecting new knowledge about Escherichia coli K-12.	EcoCyc (EcoCyc.org) is a freely accessible, comprehensive database that collects and summarizes experimental data for Escherichia coli K-12, the best-studied bacterial model organism. New experimental discoveries about gene products, their function and regulation, new metabolic pathways, enzymes and cofactors are regularly added to EcoCyc. New SmartTable tools allow users to browse collections of related EcoCyc content. SmartTables can also serve as repositories for user- or curator-generated lists. EcoCyc now supports running and modifying E. coli metabolic models directly on the EcoCyc website.	2017 01	Keseler, Ingrid M; Keseler, IM; Keseler; Mackie, Amanda; Mackie, A; Mackie; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Billington, Richard; Billington, R; Billington; Bonavides-Martínez, César; Bonavides-Martínez, C; Bonavides-Martínez; Caspi, Ron; Caspi, R; Caspi; Fulcher, Carol; Fulcher, C; Fulcher; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Kothari, Anamika; Kothari, A; Kothari; Krummenacker, Markus; Krummenacker, M; Krummenacker; Latendresse, Mario; Latendresse, M; Latendresse; Muñiz-Rascado, Luis; Muñiz-Rascado, L; Muñiz-Rascado; Ong, Quang; Ong, Q; Ong; Paley, Suzanne; Paley, S; Paley; Peralta-Gil, Martin; Peralta-Gil, M; Peralta-Gil; Subhraveti, Pallavi; Subhraveti, P; Subhraveti; Velázquez-Ramírez, David A; Velázquez-Ramírez, DA; Velázquez-Ramírez; Weaver, Daniel; Weaver, D; Weaver; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Paulsen, Ian; Paulsen, I; Paulsen; Karp, Peter D; Karp, PD; Karp	Nucleic Acids Res
28659968	The Human Microbiome and the Missing Heritability Problem.	The "missing heritability" problem states that genetic variants in Genome-Wide Association Studies (GWAS) cannot completely explain the heritability of complex traits. Traditionally, the heritability of a phenotype is measured through familial studies using twins, siblings and other close relatives, making assumptions on the genetic similarities between them. When this heritability is compared to the one obtained through GWAS for the same traits, a substantial gap between both measurements arise with genome wide studies reporting significantly smaller values. Several mechanisms for this "missing heritability" have been proposed, such as epigenetics, epistasis, and sequencing depth. However, none of them are able to fully account for this gap in heritability. In this paper we provide evidence that suggests that in order for the phenotypic heritability of human traits to be broadly understood and accounted for, the compositional and functional diversity of the human microbiome must be taken into account. This hypothesis is based on several observations: (A) The composition of the human microbiome is associated with many important traits, including obesity, cancer, and neurological disorders. (B) Our microbiome encodes a second genome with nearly a 100 times more genes than the human genome, and this second genome may act as a rich source of genetic variation and phenotypic plasticity. (C) Human genotypes interact with the composition and structure of our microbiome, but cannot by themselves explain microbial variation. (D) Microbial genetic composition can be strongly influenced by the host's behavior, its environment or by vertical and horizontal transmissions from other hosts. Therefore, genetic similarities assumed in familial studies may cause overestimations of heritability values. We also propose a method that allows the compositional and functional diversity of our microbiome to be incorporated to genome wide association studies.	2017	Sandoval-Motta, Santiago; Sandoval-Motta, S; Sandoval-Motta; Aldana, Maximino; Aldana, M; Aldana; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Frank, Alejandro; Frank, A; Frank	Front Genet
27814642	The long story of mitochondrial DNA and respiratory complex I.	This article examines the long story of the relationship between mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and respiratory complex I, NADH:Ubiquinone Oxidoreductase, from its beginning  in the genome of the bacterial endosymbiont which then evolved into the mitochondria of our cells. The story begins with the evolution of ancient forms of bacterial complex I into the Nuo14 complex I that was present in the alpha proteobacterial ancestor of mitochondria. The story then becomes complicated in the diversity of eukaryotic organisms that are currently recognized. Therefore, it does not have a clear end, because currently available information shows different situations of metabolic adaptation and gene loss, indicating cases of de-evolution of the original protonmotive complex into a system that may fundamentally assist [FeFe]-hydrogenases in re-oxidising metabolically produced NADH under anaerobic conditions. The history of complex I is thus a never ending story of molecular and physiological evolution producing new perspectives for studying the enzyme complex that occupies the largest proportion of mitochondrial DNA.	2017 01	Degli Esposti, Mauro; Degli Esposti, M; Degli Esposti	Front Biosci (Landmark Ed)
27958329	CircRNA accumulation in the aging mouse brain.	Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are a newly appreciated class of RNAs expressed across diverse phyla. These enigmatic transcripts are most commonly generated by back-splicing events from exons of protein-coding genes. This results in highly stable RNAs due to the lack of free 5' and 3' ends. CircRNAs are enriched in neural tissues, suggesting that they might have neural functions. Here, we sought to determine whether circRNA accumulation occurs during aging in mice. Total RNA-seq profiling of young (1 month old) and aged (22 month old) cortex, hippocampus and heart samples was performed. This led to the confident detection of 6,791 distinct circRNAs across these samples, including 675 novel circRNAs. Analysis uncovered a strong bias for circRNA upregulation during aging in neural tissues. These age-accumulation trends were verified for individual circRNAs by RT-qPCR and Northern analysis. In contrast, comparison of aged versus young hearts failed to reveal a global trend for circRNA upregulation. Age-accumulation of circRNAs in brain tissues was found to be largely independent from linear RNA expression of host genes. These findings suggest that circRNAs might play biological roles relevant to the aging nervous system.	2016 12	Gruner, Hannah; Gruner, H; Gruner; Cortés-López, Mariela; Cortés-López, M; Cortés-López; Cooper, Daphne A; Cooper, DA; Cooper; Bauer, Matthew; Bauer, M; Bauer; Miura, Pedro; Miura, P; Miura	Sci Rep
27854363	Indel variant analysis of short-read sequencing data with Scalpel.	As the second most common type of variation in the human genome, insertions and deletions (indels) have been linked to many diseases, but the discovery of indels of more than a few bases in size from short-read sequencing data remains challenging. Scalpel (http://scalpel.sourceforge.net) is an open-source software for reliable indel detection based on the microassembly technique. It has been successfully used to discover mutations in novel candidate genes for autism, and it is extensively used in other large-scale studies of human diseases. This protocol gives an overview of the algorithm and describes how to use Scalpel to perform highly accurate indel calling from whole-genome and whole-exome sequencing data. We provide detailed instructions for an exemplary family-based de novo study, but we also characterize the other two supported modes of operation: single-sample and somatic analysis. Indel normalization, visualization and annotation of the mutations are also illustrated. Using a standard server, indel discovery and characterization in the exonic regions of the example sequencing data can be completed in ∼5 h after read mapping.	2016 Dec	Fang, Han; Fang, H; Fang; Bergmann, Ewa A; Bergmann, EA; Bergmann; Arora, Kanika; Arora, K; Arora; Vacic, Vladimir; Vacic, V; Vacic; Zody, Michael C; Zody, MC; Zody; Iossifov, Ivan; Iossifov, I; Iossifov; O'Rawe, Jason A; O'Rawe, JA; O'Rawe; Wu, Yiyang; Wu, Y; Wu; Jimenez Barron, Laura T; Jimenez Barron, LT; Jimenez Barron; Rosenbaum, Julie; Rosenbaum, J; Rosenbaum; Ronemus, Michael; Ronemus, M; Ronemus; Lee, Yoon-Ha; Lee, YH; Lee; Wang, Zihua; Wang, Z; Wang; Dikoglu, Esra; Dikoglu, E; Dikoglu; Jobanputra, Vaidehi; Jobanputra, V; Jobanputra; Lyon, Gholson J; Lyon, GJ; Lyon; Wigler, Michael; Wigler, M; Wigler; Schatz, Michael C; Schatz, MC; Schatz; Narzisi, Giuseppe; Narzisi, G; Narzisi	Nat Protoc
27929718	Lotus japonicus NF-YA1 Plays an Essential Role During Nodule Differentiation and Targets Members of the SHI/STY Gene Family.	Legume plants engage in intimate relationships with rhizobial bacteria to form nitrogen-fixing nodules, root-derived organs that accommodate the microsymbiont. Members of the Nuclear Factor Y (NF-Y) gene family, which have undergone significant expansion and functional diversification during plant evolution, are essential for this symbiotic liaison. Acting in a partially redundant manner, NF-Y proteins were shown, previously, to regulate bacterial infection, including selection of a superior rhizobial strain, and to mediate nodule structure formation. However, the exact mechanism by which these transcriptional factors exert their symbiotic functions has remained elusive. By carrying out detailed functional analyses of Lotus japonicus mutants, we demonstrate that LjNF-YA1 becomes indispensable downstream from the initial cortical cell divisions but prior to nodule differentiation, including cell enlargement and vascular bundle formation. Three affiliates of the SHORT INTERNODES/STYLISH transcription factor gene family, called STY1, STY2, and STY3, are demonstrated to be among likely direct targets of LjNF-YA1, and our results point to their involvement in nodule formation.	2016 12	Hossain, Md Shakhawat; Hossain, MS; Hossain; Shrestha, Arina; Shrestha, A; Shrestha; Zhong, Sihui; Zhong, S; Zhong; Miri, Mandana; Miri, M; Miri; Austin, Ryan S; Austin, RS; Austin; Sato, Shusei; Sato, S; Sato; Ross, Loretta; Ross, L; Ross; Huebert, Terry; Huebert, T; Huebert; Tromas, Alexandre; Tromas, A; Tromas; Torres-Jerez, Ivone; Torres-Jerez, I; Torres-Jerez; Tang, Yuhong; Tang, Y; Tang; Udvardi, Michael; Udvardi, M; Udvardi; Murray, Jeremy D; Murray, JD; Murray; Szczyglowski, Krzysztof; Szczyglowski, K; Szczyglowski	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
27886269	In silico clustering of Salmonella global gene expression data reveals novel genes co-regulated with the SPI-1 virulence genes through HilD.	A wide variety of Salmonella enterica serovars cause intestinal and systemic infections to humans and animals. Salmonella Patogenicity Island 1 (SPI-1) is a chromosomal region containing 39 genes that have crucial virulence roles. The AraC-like transcriptional regulator HilD, encoded in SPI-1, positively controls the expression of the SPI-1 genes, as well as of several other virulence genes located outside SPI-1. In this study, we applied a clustering method to the global gene expression data of S. enterica serovar Typhimurium from the COLOMBOS database; thus genes that show an expression pattern similar to that of SPI-1 genes were selected. This analysis revealed nine novel genes that are co-expressed with SPI-1, which are located in different chromosomal regions. Expression analyses and protein-DNA interaction assays showed regulation by HilD for six of these genes: gtgE, phoH, sinR, SL1263 (lpxR) and SL4247 were regulated directly, whereas SL1896 was regulated indirectly. Interestingly, phoH is an ancestral gene conserved in most of bacteria, whereas the other genes show characteristics of genes acquired by Salmonella. A role in virulence has been previously demonstrated for gtgE, lpxR and sinR. Our results further expand the regulon of HilD and thus identify novel possible Salmonella virulence genes.	2016 11	Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; Pérez-Morales, Deyanira; Pérez-Morales, D; Pérez-Morales; Sánchez-Pérez, Mishael; Sánchez-Pérez, M; Sánchez-Pérez; Paredes, Claudia C; Paredes, CC; Paredes; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Bustamante, Víctor H; Bustamante, VH; Bustamante	Sci Rep
27911408	Defining Substrate Specificities for Lipase and Phospholipase Candidates.	Microorganisms produce a wide spectrum of (phospho)lipases that are secreted in order to make external substrates available for the organism. Alternatively, other (phospho)lipases may be physically associated with the producing organism causing a turnover of intrinsic lipids and frequently giving rise to a remodeling of the cellular membranes. Although potential (phospho)lipases can be predicted with a number of algorithms when the gene/protein sequence is available, experimental proof of the enzyme activities, substrate specificities, and potential physiological functions has frequently not been obtained. This manuscript describes the optimization of assay conditions for prospective (phospho)lipases with unknown substrate specificities and how to employ these optimized conditions in the search for the natural substrate of a respective (phospho)lipase. Using artificial chromogenic substrates, such as p-nitrophenyl derivatives, may help to detect a minor enzymatic activity for a predicted (phospho)lipase under standard conditions. Having encountered such a minor enzymatic activity, the distinct parameters of an enzyme assay can be varied in order to obtain a more efficient hydrolysis of the artificial substrate. After having determined the conditions under which an enzyme works well, a variety of potential natural substrates should be assayed for their degradation, a process that can be followed employing distinct chromatographic methods. The definition of substrate specificities for new enzymes, often provides hypotheses for a potential physiological role of these enzymes, which then can be tested experimentally. Following these guidelines, we were able to identify a phospholipase C (SMc00171) that degrades phosphatidylcholine to phosphocholine and diacylglycerol, in a crucial step for the remodeling of membranes in the bacterium Sinorhizobium meliloti upon phosphorus-limiting conditions of growth. For two predicted patatin-like phospholipases (SMc00930 and SMc01003) of the same organism, we could redefine their substrate specificities and clarify that SMc01003 is a diacylglycerol lipase.	2016 11	Sahonero-Canavesi, Diana X; Sahonero-Canavesi, DX; Sahonero-Canavesi; Zavaleta-Pastor, Maritza; Zavaleta-Pastor, M; Zavaleta-Pastor; Martínez-Aguilar, Lourdes; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	J Vis Exp
27492201	Microbiota from Rhabditis regina may alter nematode entomopathogenicity.	Here we report the presence of the entomopathogenic nematode Rhabditis (Rhabditoides) regina affecting white grubs (Phyllophaga sp. and Anomala sp.) in Mexico and R. regina-associated bacteria. Bioassays were performed to test the entomopathogenic capacity of dauer and L2 and L3 (combined) larval stages. Furthermore, we determined the diversity of bacteria from laboratory nematodes cultivated for 2 years (dauer and L2-L3 larvae) and from field nematodes (dauer and L2-L3 larvae) in addition to the virulence in Galleria mellonella larvae of some bacterial species from both laboratory and field nematodes. Dauer and non-dauer larvae of R. regina killed G. mellonella. Bacteria such as Serratia sp. (isolated from field nematodes) and Klebsiella sp. (isolated from larvae of laboratory and field nematodes) may explain R. regina entomopathogenic capabilities. Different bacteria were found in nematodes after subculturing in the laboratory suggesting that R. regina may acquire bacteria in different environments. However, there were some consistently found bacteria from laboratory and field nematodes such as Pseudochrobactrum sp., Comamonas sp., Alcaligenes sp., Klebsiella sp., Acinetobacter sp., and Leucobacter sp. that may constitute the nematode microbiome. Results showed that some bacteria contributing to entomopathogenicity may be lost in the laboratory representing a disadvantage when nematodes are cultivated to be used for biological control.	2016 Nov	Jiménez-Cortés, Jesús Guillermo; Jiménez-Cortés, JG; Jiménez-Cortés; Canales-Lazcano, Jorge; Canales-Lazcano, J; Canales-Lazcano; Lara-Reyes, Nancy; Lara-Reyes, N; Lara-Reyes; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Contreras-Garduño, Jorge; Contreras-Garduño, J; Contreras-Garduño	Parasitol Res
27573474	Production of d-lactate from sugarcane bagasse and corn stover hydrolysates using metabolic engineered Escherichia coli strains.	In this study, the lactogenic Escherichia coli strain JU15 was used and modified to produce d-lactate (d-LA) from plant hydrolysates with a minimal nutrient addition in pH controlled fermenters. Results showed that strain JU15 produces d-LA with high yield and productivity in laboratory simulated hydrolysate media and actual sugar cane bagasse hemicellulosic hydrolysate. Strain JU15 showed sequential carbon source utilization and acetic acid production. The l-lactic and acetic acid production pathways were deleted in JU15, resulting strain AV03 (JU15 ΔpoxB, ΔackA-pta, ΔmgsA), which showed simultaneous consumption of glucose and xylose and no acetic acid production in the simulated hydrolysate. The d-LA yield from hydrolysate sugars was close to 0.95gD-LA/gsugars in all cases. Our results show that d-LA can be produced from plant hydrolysates in simple batch fermentation processes with a high productivity using engineered E. coli strains at fermenter scales from 0.2 up to 10L. 	2016 Nov	Utrilla, José; Utrilla, J; Utrilla; Vargas-Tah, Alejandra; Vargas-Tah, A; Vargas-Tah; Trujillo-Martínez, Berenice; Trujillo-Martínez, B; Trujillo-Martínez; Gosset, Guillermo; Gosset, G; Gosset; Martinez, Alfredo; Martinez, A; Martinez	Bioresour Technol
27499008	Rhizobium favelukesii sp. nov., isolated from the root nodules of alfalfa (Medicago sativa L).	Strains LPU83T and Or191 of the genus Rhizobium were isolated from the root nodules of alfalfa, grown in acid soils from Argentina and the USA. These two strains, which shared the same plasmid pattern, lipopolysaccharide profile, insertion-sequence fingerprint, 16S rRNA gene sequence and PCR-fingerprinting pattern, were different from reference strains representing species of the genus Rhizobium with validly published names. On the basis of previously reported data and from new DNA-DNA hybridization results, phenotypic characterization and phylogenetic analyses, strains LPU83T and Or191 can be considered to be representatives of a novel species of the genus Rhizobium, for which the name Rhizobium favelukesii sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain of this species is LPU83T (=CECT 9014T=LMG 29160T), for which an improved draft-genome sequence is available.	2016 Nov	Torres Tejerizo, Gonzalo; Torres Tejerizo, G; Torres Tejerizo; Rogel, Marco Antonio; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Althabegoiti, María Julia; Althabegoiti, MJ; Althabegoiti; Nilsson, Juliet Fernanda; Nilsson, JF; Nilsson; Niehaus, Karsten; Niehaus, K; Niehaus; Schlüter, Andreas; Schlüter, A; Schlüter; Pühler, Alfred; Pühler, A; Pühler; Del Papa, María Florencia; Del Papa, MF; Del Papa; Lagares, Antonio; Lagares, A; Lagares; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Pistorio, Mariano; Pistorio, M; Pistorio	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
27226009	Transcriptomic analysis of the process of biofilm formation in Rhizobium etli CFN42.	Organisms belonging to the genus Rhizobium colonize leguminous plant roots and establish a mutually beneficial symbiosis. Biofilms are structured ecosystems in which microbes are embedded in a matrix of extracellular polymeric substances, and their development is a multistep process. The biofilm formation processes of R. etli CFN42 were analyzed at an early (24-h incubation) and mature stage (72 h), comparing cells in the biofilm with cells remaining in the planktonic stage. A genome-wide microarray analysis identified 498 differentially regulated genes, implying that expression of ~8.3 % of the total R. etli gene content was altered during biofilm formation. In biofilms-attached cells, genes encoding proteins with diverse functions were overexpressed including genes involved in membrane synthesis, transport and chemotaxis, repression of flagellin synthesis, as well as surface components (particularly exopolysaccharides and lipopolysaccharides), in combination with the presence of activators or stimulators of N-acyl-homoserine lactone synthesis This suggests that R. etli is able to sense surrounding environmental conditions and accordingly regulate the transition from planktonic and biofilm growth. In contrast, planktonic cells differentially expressed genes associated with transport, motility (flagellar and twitching) and inhibition of exopolysaccharide synthesis. To our knowledge, this is the first report of nodulation and nitrogen assimilation-related genes being involved in biofilm formation in R. etli. These results contribute to the understanding of the physiological changes involved in biofilm formation by bacteria. 	2016 Nov	Reyes-Pérez, Agustín; Reyes-Pérez, A; Reyes-Pérez; Vargas, María Del Carmen; Vargas, Mdel C; Vargas; Hernández, Magdalena; Hernández, M; Hernández; Aguirre-von-Wobeser, Eneas; Aguirre-von-Wobeser, E; Aguirre-von-Wobeser; Pérez-Rueda, Ernesto; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda; Encarnacion, Sergio; Encarnacion, S; Encarnacion	Arch Microbiol
27543297	Genomes of Candidatus Wolbachia bourtzisii wDacA and Candidatus Wolbachia pipientis wDacB from the Cochineal Insect Dactylopius coccus (Hemiptera: Dactylopiidae).	Dactylopius species, known as cochineal insects, are the source of the carminic acid dye used worldwide. The presence of two Wolbachia strains in Dactylopius coccus from Mexico was revealed by PCR amplification of wsp and sequencing of 16S rRNA genes. A metagenome analysis recovered the genome sequences of Candidatus Wolbachia bourtzisii wDacA (supergroup A) and Candidatus Wolbachia pipientis wDacB (supergroup B). Genome read coverage, as well as 16S rRNA clone sequencing, revealed that wDacB was more abundant than wDacA. The strains shared similar predicted metabolic capabilities that are common to Wolbachia, including riboflavin, ubiquinone, and heme biosynthesis, but lacked other vitamin and cofactor biosynthesis as well as glycolysis, the oxidative pentose phosphate pathway, and sugar uptake systems. A complete tricarboxylic acid cycle and gluconeogenesis were predicted as well as limited amino acid biosynthesis. Uptake and catabolism of proline were evidenced in Dactylopius Wolbachia strains. Both strains possessed WO-like phage regions and type I and type IV secretion systems. Several efflux systems found suggested the existence of metal toxicity within their host. Besides already described putative virulence factors like ankyrin domain proteins, VlrC homologs, and patatin-like proteins, putative novel virulence factors related to those found in intracellular pathogens like Legionella and Mycobacterium are highlighted for the first time in Wolbachia Candidate genes identified in other Wolbachia that are likely involved in cytoplasmic incompatibility were found in wDacB but not in wDacA.	2016 10	Ramírez-Puebla, Shamayim T; Ramírez-Puebla, ST; Ramírez-Puebla; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Vera-Ponce de León, Arturo; Vera-Ponce de León, A; Vera-Ponce de León; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Sanchez-Flores, Alejandro; Sanchez-Flores, A; Sanchez-Flores; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	G3 (Bethesda)
27724938	Infection with Plasmodium berghei ookinetes alters protein expression in the brain of Anopheles albimanus mosquitoes.	The behaviour of Anopheles spp. mosquitoes, vectors for Plasmodium parasites, plays a crucial role in the propagation of malaria to humans. Consequently, it is important to understand how the behaviour of these mosquitoes is influenced by the interaction between the brain and immunological status. The nervous system is intimately linked to the immune and endocrine systems. There is evidence that the malaria parasite alters the function of these systems upon infecting the mosquito. Although there is a complex molecular interplay between the Plasmodium parasite and Anopheles mosquito, little is known about the neuronal alteration triggered by the parasite invasion. The aim of this study was to analyse the modification of the proteomic profile in the An. albimanus brain during the early phase of the Plasmodium berghei invasion.	2016 10	Alvarado-Delgado, Alejandro; Alvarado-Delgado, A; Alvarado-Delgado; Perales Ortiz, Guillermo; Perales Ortiz, G; Perales Ortiz; Tello-López, Ángel T; Tello-López, ÁT; Tello-López; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Conde, Renaud; Conde, R; Conde; Martínez-Batallar, Ángel G; Martínez-Batallar, ÁG; Martínez-Batallar; Moran-Francia, Ken; Moran-Francia, K; Moran-Francia; Lanz-Mendoza, Humberto; Lanz-Mendoza, H; Lanz-Mendoza	Parasit Vectors
27633769	Dynamics of genome change among Legionella species.	Legionella species inhabit freshwater and soil ecosystems where they parasitize protozoa. L. pneumonphila (LP) serogroup-1 (Lp1) is the major cause of Legionnaires' Disease (LD), a life-threatening pulmonary infection that can spread systemically. The increased global frequency of LD caused by Lp and non-Lp species underscores the need to expand our knowledge of evolutionary forces underlying disease pathogenesis. Whole genome analyses of 43 strains, including all known Lp serogroups 1-17 and 17 emergent LD-causing Legionella species (of which 33 were sequenced in this study) in addition to 10 publicly available genomes, resolved the strains into four phylogenetic clades along host virulence demarcations. Clade-specific genes were distinct for genetic exchange and signal-transduction, indicating adaptation to specific cellular and/or environmental niches. CRISPR spacer comparisons hinted at larger pools of accessory DNA sequences in Lp than predicted by the pan-genome analyses. While recombination within Lp was frequent and has been reported previously, population structure analysis identified surprisingly few DNA admixture events between species. In summary, diverse Legionella LD-causing species share a conserved core-genome, are genetically isolated from each other, and selectively acquire genes with potential for enhanced virulence.	2016 09	Joseph, Sandeep J; Joseph, SJ; Joseph; Cox, Daniel; Cox, D; Cox; Wolff, Bernard; Wolff, B; Wolff; Morrison, Shatavia S; Morrison, SS; Morrison; Kozak-Muiznieks, Natalia A; Kozak-Muiznieks, NA; Kozak-Muiznieks; Frace, Michael; Frace, M; Frace; Didelot, Xavier; Didelot, X; Didelot; Castillo-Ramirez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramirez, S; Castillo-Ramirez; Winchell, Jonas; Winchell, J; Winchell; Read, Timothy D; Read, TD; Read; Dean, Deborah; Dean, D; Dean	Sci Rep
27632983	Recurrent evolution of host and vector association in bacteria of the Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato species complex.	The Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato (s.l.) species complex consists of tick-transmitted bacteria and currently comprises approximately 20 named and proposed genospecies some of which are known to cause Lyme Borreliosis. Species have been defined via genetic distances and ecological niches they occupy. Understanding the evolutionary relationship of species of the complex is fundamental to explaining patterns of speciation. This in turn forms a crucial basis to frame testable hypotheses concerning the underlying processes including host and vector adaptations.	2016 09	Becker, Noémie S; Becker, NS; Becker; Margos, Gabriele; Margos, G; Margos; Blum, Helmut; Blum, H; Blum; Krebs, Stefan; Krebs, S; Krebs; Graf, Alexander; Graf, A; Graf; Lane, Robert S; Lane, RS; Lane; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Sing, Andreas; Sing, A; Sing; Fingerle, Volker; Fingerle, V; Fingerle	BMC Genomics
27504778	Sharing and community curation of mass spectrometry data with Global Natural Products Social Molecular Networking.	The potential of the diverse chemistries present in natural products (NP) for biotechnology and medicine remains untapped because NP databases are not searchable with raw data and the NP community has no way to share data other than in published papers. Although mass spectrometry (MS) techniques are well-suited to high-throughput characterization of NP, there is a pressing need for an infrastructure to enable sharing and curation of data. We present Global Natural Products Social Molecular Networking (GNPS; http://gnps.ucsd.edu), an open-access knowledge base for community-wide organization and sharing of raw, processed or identified tandem mass (MS/MS) spectrometry data. In GNPS, crowdsourced curation of freely available community-wide reference MS libraries will underpin improved annotations. Data-driven social-networking should facilitate identification of spectra and foster collaborations. We also introduce the concept of 'living data' through continuous reanalysis of deposited data.	2016 08	Wang, Mingxun; Wang, M; Wang; Carver, Jeremy J; Carver, JJ; Carver; Phelan, Vanessa V; Phelan, VV; Phelan; Sanchez, Laura M; Sanchez, LM; Sanchez; Garg, Neha; Garg, N; Garg; Peng, Yao; Peng, Y; Peng; Nguyen, Don Duy; Nguyen, DD; Nguyen; Watrous, Jeramie; Watrous, J; Watrous; Kapono, Clifford A; Kapono, CA; Kapono; Luzzatto-Knaan, Tal; Luzzatto-Knaan, T; Luzzatto-Knaan; Porto, Carla; Porto, C; Porto; Bouslimani, Amina; Bouslimani, A; Bouslimani; Melnik, Alexey V; Melnik, AV; Melnik; Meehan, Michael J; Meehan, MJ; Meehan; Liu, Wei-Ting; Liu, WT; Liu; Crüsemann, Max; Crüsemann, M; Crüsemann; Boudreau, Paul D; Boudreau, PD; Boudreau; Esquenazi, Eduardo; Esquenazi, E; Esquenazi; Sandoval-Calderón, Mario; Sandoval-Calderón, M; Sandoval-Calderón; Kersten, Roland D; Kersten, RD; Kersten; Pace, Laura A; Pace, LA; Pace; Quinn, Robert A; Quinn, RA; Quinn; Duncan, Katherine R; Duncan, KR; Duncan; Hsu, Cheng-Chih; Hsu, CC; Hsu; Floros, Dimitrios J; Floros, DJ; Floros; Gavilan, Ronnie G; Gavilan, RG; Gavilan; Kleigrewe, Karin; Kleigrewe, K; Kleigrewe; Northen, Trent; Northen, T; Northen; Dutton, Rachel J; Dutton, RJ; Dutton; Parrot, Delphine; Parrot, D; Parrot; Carlson, Erin E; Carlson, EE; Carlson; Aigle, Bertrand; Aigle, B; Aigle; Michelsen, Charlotte F; Michelsen, CF; Michelsen; Jelsbak, Lars; Jelsbak, L; Jelsbak; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Pevzner, Pavel; Pevzner, P; Pevzner; Edlund, Anna; Edlund, A; Edlund; McLean, Jeffrey; McLean, J; McLean; Piel, Jörn; Piel, J; Piel; Murphy, Brian T; Murphy, BT; Murphy; Gerwick, Lena; Gerwick, L; Gerwick; Liaw, Chih-Chuang; Liaw, CC; Liaw; Yang, Yu-Liang; Yang, YL; Yang; Humpf, Hans-Ulrich; Humpf, HU; Humpf; Maansson, Maria; Maansson, M; Maansson; Keyzers, Robert A; Keyzers, RA; Keyzers; Sims, Amy C; Sims, AC; Sims; Johnson, Andrew R; Johnson, AR; Johnson; Sidebottom, Ashley M; Sidebottom, AM; Sidebottom; Sedio, Brian E; Sedio, BE; Sedio; Klitgaard, Andreas; Klitgaard, A; Klitgaard; Larson, Charles B; Larson, CB; Larson; P, Cristopher A Boya; P, CAB; P; Torres-Mendoza, Daniel; Torres-Mendoza, D; Torres-Mendoza; Gonzalez, David J; Gonzalez, DJ; Gonzalez; Silva, Denise B; Silva, DB; Silva; Marques, Lucas M; Marques, LM; Marques; Demarque, Daniel P; Demarque, DP; Demarque; Pociute, Egle; Pociute, E; Pociute; O'Neill, Ellis C; O'Neill, EC; O'Neill; Briand, Enora; Briand, E; Briand; Helfrich, Eric J N; Helfrich, EJN; Helfrich; Granatosky, Eve A; Granatosky, EA; Granatosky; Glukhov, Evgenia; Glukhov, E; Glukhov; Ryffel, Florian; Ryffel, F; Ryffel; Houson, Hailey; Houson, H; Houson; Mohimani, Hosein; Mohimani, H; Mohimani; Kharbush, Jenan J; Kharbush, JJ; Kharbush; Zeng, Yi; Zeng, Y; Zeng; Vorholt, Julia A; Vorholt, JA; Vorholt; Kurita, Kenji L; Kurita, KL; Kurita; Charusanti, Pep; Charusanti, P; Charusanti; McPhail, Kerry L; McPhail, KL; McPhail; Nielsen, Kristian Fog; Nielsen, KF; Nielsen; Vuong, Lisa; Vuong, L; Vuong; Elfeki, Maryam; Elfeki, M; Elfeki; Traxler, Matthew F; Traxler, MF; Traxler; Engene, Niclas; Engene, N; Engene; Koyama, Nobuhiro; Koyama, N; Koyama; Vining, Oliver B; Vining, OB; Vining; Baric, Ralph; Baric, R; Baric; Silva, Ricardo R; Silva, RR; Silva; Mascuch, Samantha J; Mascuch, SJ; Mascuch; Tomasi, Sophie; Tomasi, S; Tomasi; Jenkins, Stefan; Jenkins, S; Jenkins; Macherla, Venkat; Macherla, V; Macherla; Hoffman, Thomas; Hoffman, T; Hoffman; Agarwal, Vinayak; Agarwal, V; Agarwal; Williams, Philip G; Williams, PG; Williams; Dai, Jingqui; Dai, J; Dai; Neupane, Ram; Neupane, R; Neupane; Gurr, Joshua; Gurr, J; Gurr; Rodríguez, Andrés M C; Rodríguez, AMC; Rodríguez; Lamsa, Anne; Lamsa, A; Lamsa; Zhang, Chen; Zhang, C; Zhang; Dorrestein, Kathleen; Dorrestein, K; Dorrestein; Duggan, Brendan M; Duggan, BM; Duggan; Almaliti, Jehad; Almaliti, J; Almaliti; Allard, Pierre-Marie; Allard, PM; Allard; Phapale, Prasad; Phapale, P; Phapale; Nothias, Louis-Felix; Nothias, LF; Nothias; Alexandrov, Theodore; Alexandrov, T; Alexandrov; Litaudon, Marc; Litaudon, M; Litaudon; Wolfender, Jean-Luc; Wolfender, JL; Wolfender; Kyle, Jennifer E; Kyle, JE; Kyle; Metz, Thomas O; Metz, TO; Metz; Peryea, Tyler; Peryea, T; Peryea; Nguyen, Dac-Trung; Nguyen, DT; Nguyen; VanLeer, Danielle; VanLeer, D; VanLeer; Shinn, Paul; Shinn, P; Shinn; Jadhav, Ajit; Jadhav, A; Jadhav; Müller, Rolf; Müller, R; Müller; Waters, Katrina M; Waters, KM; Waters; Shi, Wenyuan; Shi, W; Shi; Liu, Xueting; Liu, X; Liu; Zhang, Lixin; Zhang, L; Zhang; Knight, Rob; Knight, R; Knight; Jensen, Paul R; Jensen, PR; Jensen; Palsson, Bernhard O; Palsson, BO; Palsson; Pogliano, Kit; Pogliano, K; Pogliano; Linington, Roger G; Linington, RG; Linington; Gutiérrez, Marcelino; Gutiérrez, M; Gutiérrez; Lopes, Norberto P; Lopes, NP; Lopes; Gerwick, William H; Gerwick, WH; Gerwick; Moore, Bradley S; Moore, BS; Moore; Dorrestein, Pieter C; Dorrestein, PC; Dorrestein; Bandeira, Nuno; Bandeira, N; Bandeira	Nat Biotechnol
27601031	Genomic studies of nitrogen-fixing rhizobial strains from Phaseolus vulgaris seeds and nodules.	Rhizobia are soil bacteria that establish symbiotic relationships with legumes and fix nitrogen in root nodules. We recently reported that several nitrogen-fixing rhizobial strains, belonging to Rhizobium phaseoli, R. trifolii, R. grahamii and Sinorhizobium americanum, were able to colonize Phaseolus vulgaris (common bean) seeds. To gain further insight into the traits that support this ability, we analyzed the genomic sequences and proteomes of R. phaseoli (CCGM1) and S. americanum (CCGM7) strains from seeds and compared them with those of the closely related strains CIAT652 and CFNEI73, respectively, isolated only from nodules.	2016 09	Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta; Aguilar, Alejandro; Aguilar, A; Aguilar; Díaz, Rafael; Díaz, R; Díaz; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Martínez-Batallar, Gabriel; Martínez-Batallar, G; Martínez-Batallar; Salazar, Emmanuel; Salazar, E; Salazar; Vargas-Lagunas, Carmen; Vargas-Lagunas, C; Vargas-Lagunas; Martínez, Esperanza; Martínez, E; Martínez; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	BMC Genomics
26395550	Diversity patterns of Rhizobiaceae communities inhabiting soils, root surfaces and nodules reveal a strong selection of rhizobial partners by legumes.	Current knowledge about rhizobial diversity patterns in non-nodule habitats is scarce, limiting our understanding of basic aspects of rhizobial ecology like competitiveness for nodule occupancy and host effects on community structure. We used a combination of cultivation-dependent and independent approaches to analyse alpha and beta diversity patterns of Rhizobiaceae communities from a conserved seasonally dry tropical forest site in central Mexico and two nearby agricultural fields. Lineage-specific recA amplicon libraries were generated from soil DNA and their sequences compared with those from root surface and nodule isolates recovered in trapping experiments from two native Acacia species and two Phaseolus vulgaris cultivars. Rarefaction analyses revealed that Rhizobiaceae diversity in soils is larger than on root surfaces, and smallest in nodules. A 'rare biosphere'-like distribution of species was found in the three habitats. Multivariate statistical analyses demonstrated that the plant genus exerted a stronger influence than the land-usage regime on the diversity of rhizobia associated with hosts. Rhizobium etli was the dominant Rhizobiaceae found in the soil libraries. It dominated nodulation of Acacia spp. and predominately harboured symbiovar mimosae-like nodC genes. A novel Rhizobium lineage (Rsp1) dominated bean nodulation. Specialist and generalist genotypes for host nodulation were detected in both species.	2016 09	Miranda-Sánchez, Fabiola; Miranda-Sánchez, F; Miranda-Sánchez; Rivera, Javier; Rivera, J; Rivera; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa	Environ Microbiol
27589961	Overview of the interactive task in BioCreative V.	Fully automated text mining (TM) systems promote efficient literature searching, retrieval, and review but are not sufficient to produce ready-to-consume curated documents. These systems are not meant to replace biocurators, but instead to assist them in one or more literature curation steps. To do so, the user interface is an important aspect that needs to be considered for tool adoption. The BioCreative Interactive task (IAT) is a track designed for exploring user-system interactions, promoting development of useful TM tools, and providing a communication channel between the biocuration and the TM communities. In BioCreative V, the IAT track followed a format similar to previous interactive tracks, where the utility and usability of TM tools, as well as the generation of use cases, have been the focal points. The proposed curation tasks are user-centric and formally evaluated by biocurators. In BioCreative V IAT, seven TM systems and 43 biocurators participated. Two levels of user participation were offered to broaden curator involvement and obtain more feedback on usability aspects. The full level participation involved training on the system, curation of a set of documents with and without TM assistance, tracking of time-on-task, and completion of a user survey. The partial level participation was designed to focus on usability aspects of the interface and not the performance per se In this case, biocurators navigated the system by performing pre-designed tasks and then were asked whether they were able to achieve the task and the level of difficulty in completing the task. In this manuscript, we describe the development of the interactive task, from planning to execution and discuss major findings for the systems tested.Database URL: http://www.biocreative.org.	2016	Wang, Qinghua; Wang, Q; Wang; S Abdul, Shabbir; S Abdul, S; S Abdul; Almeida, Lara; Almeida, L; Almeida; Ananiadou, Sophia; Ananiadou, S; Ananiadou; Balderas-Martínez, Yalbi I; Balderas-Martínez, YI; Balderas-Martínez; Batista-Navarro, Riza; Batista-Navarro, R; Batista-Navarro; Campos, David; Campos, D; Campos; Chilton, Lucy; Chilton, L; Chilton; Chou, Hui-Jou; Chou, HJ; Chou; Contreras, Gabriela; Contreras, G; Contreras; Cooper, Laurel; Cooper, L; Cooper; Dai, Hong-Jie; Dai, HJ; Dai; Ferrell, Barbra; Ferrell, B; Ferrell; Fluck, Juliane; Fluck, J; Fluck; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; George, Nancy; George, N; George; Gkoutos, Georgios; Gkoutos, G; Gkoutos; Irin, Afroza K; Irin, AK; Irin; Jensen, Lars J; Jensen, LJ; Jensen; Jimenez, Silvia; Jimenez, S; Jimenez; Jue, Toni R; Jue, TR; Jue; Keseler, Ingrid; Keseler, I; Keseler; Madan, Sumit; Madan, S; Madan; Matos, Sérgio; Matos, S; Matos; McQuilton, Peter; McQuilton, P; McQuilton; Milacic, Marija; Milacic, M; Milacic; Mort, Matthew; Mort, M; Mort; Natarajan, Jeyakumar; Natarajan, J; Natarajan; Pafilis, Evangelos; Pafilis, E; Pafilis; Pereira, Emiliano; Pereira, E; Pereira; Rao, Shruti; Rao, S; Rao; Rinaldi, Fabio; Rinaldi, F; Rinaldi; Rothfels, Karen; Rothfels, K; Rothfels; Salgado, David; Salgado, D; Salgado; Silva, Raquel M; Silva, RM; Silva; Singh, Onkar; Singh, O; Singh; Stefancsik, Raymund; Stefancsik, R; Stefancsik; Su, Chu-Hsien; Su, CH; Su; Subramani, Suresh; Subramani, S; Subramani; Tadepally, Hamsa D; Tadepally, HD; Tadepally; Tsaprouni, Loukia; Tsaprouni, L; Tsaprouni; Vasilevsky, Nicole; Vasilevsky, N; Vasilevsky; Wang, Xiaodong; Wang, X; Wang; Chatr-Aryamontri, Andrew; Chatr-Aryamontri, A; Chatr-Aryamontri; Laulederkind, Stanley J F; Laulederkind, SJ; Laulederkind; Matis-Mitchell, Sherri; Matis-Mitchell, S; Matis-Mitchell; McEntyre, Johanna; McEntyre, J; McEntyre; Orchard, Sandra; Orchard, S; Orchard; Pundir, Sangya; Pundir, S; Pundir; Rodriguez-Esteban, Raul; Rodriguez-Esteban, R; Rodriguez-Esteban; Van Auken, Kimberly; Van Auken, K; Van Auken; Lu, Zhiyong; Lu, Z; Lu; Schaeffer, Mary; Schaeffer, M; Schaeffer; Wu, Cathy H; Wu, CH; Wu; Hirschman, Lynette; Hirschman, L; Hirschman; Arighi, Cecilia N; Arighi, CN; Arighi	Database (Oxford)
27312778	Population genomics of the symbiotic plasmids of sympatric nitrogen-fixing Rhizobium species associated with Phaseolus vulgaris.	Cultivated common beans are the primary protein source for millions of people around the world who subsist on low-input agriculture, enabled by the symbiotic N2 -fixation these legumes perform in association with rhizobia. Within a single agricultural plot, multiple Rhizobium species can nodulate bean roots, but it is unclear how genetically isolated these species remain in sympatry. To better understand this issue, we sequenced and compared the genomes of 33 strains isolated from the rhizosphere and root nodules of a particular bean variety grown in the same agricultural plot. We found that the Rhizobium species we observed coexist with low genetic recombination across their core genomes. Accessory plasmids thought to be necessary for the saprophytic lifestyle in soil show similar levels of genetic isolation, but with higher rates of recombination than the chromosomes. However, the symbiotic plasmids are extremely similar, with high rates of recombination and do not appear to have co-evolved with the chromosome or accessory plasmids. Therefore, while Rhizobium species are genetically isolated units within the microbial community, a common symbiotic plasmid allows all Rhizobium species to engage in symbiosis with the same host in a single agricultural plot.	2016 09	Pérez Carrascal, Olga M; Pérez Carrascal, OM; Pérez Carrascal; VanInsberghe, David; VanInsberghe, D; VanInsberghe; Juárez, Soledad; Juárez, S; Juárez; Polz, Martin F; Polz, MF; Polz; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; González, Víctor; González, V; González	Environ Microbiol
27473689	Alpha proteobacterial ancestry of the [Fe-Fe]-hydrogenases in anaerobic eukaryotes.	Eukaryogenesis, a major transition in evolution of life, originated from the symbiogenic fusion of an archaea with a metabolically versatile bacterium. By general consensus, the latter organism belonged to α proteobacteria, subsequently evolving into the mitochondrial organelle of our cells. The consensus is based upon genetic and metabolic similarities between mitochondria and aerobic α proteobacteria but fails to explain the origin of several enzymes found in the mitochondria-derived organelles of anaerobic eukaryotes such as Trichomonas and Entamoeba. These enzymes are thought to derive from bacterial lineages other than α proteobacteria, e.g., Clostridium - an obligate anaerobe. [FeFe]-hydrogenase constitues the characteristic enzyme of this anaerobic metabolism and is present in different types also in Entamoeba and other anaerobic eukaryotes. Here we show that α proteobacteria derived from metagenomic studies possess both the cytosolic and organellar type of [FeFe]-hydrogenase, as well as all the proteins required for hydrogenase maturation. These organisms are related to cultivated members of the Rhodospirillales order previously suggested to be close relatives of mitochondrial ancestors. For the first time, our evidence supports an α proteobacterial ancestry for both the anaerobic and the aerobic metabolism of eukaryotes.	2016 07	Degli Esposti, Mauro; Degli Esposti, M; Degli Esposti; Cortez, Diego; Cortez, D; Cortez; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Rasmussen, Simon; Rasmussen, S; Rasmussen; Nielsen, Henrik Bjørn; Nielsen, HB; Nielsen; Martinez Romero, Esperanza; Martinez Romero, E; Martinez Romero	Biol Direct
27468278	Region 4 of Rhizobium etli Primary Sigma Factor (SigA) Confers Transcriptional Laxity in Escherichia coli.	Sigma factors are RNA polymerase subunits engaged in promoter recognition and DNA strand separation during transcription initiation in bacteria. Primary sigma factors are responsible for the expression of housekeeping genes and are essential for survival. RpoD, the primary sigma factor of Escherichia coli, a γ-proteobacteria, recognizes consensus promoter sequences highly similar to those of some α-proteobacteria species. Despite this resemblance, RpoD is unable to sustain transcription from most of the α-proteobacterial promoters tested so far. In contrast, we have found that SigA, the primary sigma factor of Rhizobium etli, an α-proteobacteria, is able to transcribe E. coli promoters, although it exhibits only 48% identity (98% coverage) to RpoD. We have called this the transcriptional laxity phenomenon. Here, we show that SigA partially complements the thermo-sensitive deficiency of RpoD285 from E. coli strain UQ285 and that the SigA region σ4 is responsible for this phenotype. Sixteen out of 74 residues (21.6%) within region σ4 are variable between RpoD and SigA. Mutating these residues significantly improves SigA ability to complement E. coli UQ285. Only six of these residues fall into positions already known to interact with promoter DNA and to comprise a helix-turn-helix motif. The remaining variable positions are located on previously unexplored sites inside region σ4, specifically into the first two α-helices of the region. Neither of the variable positions confined to these helices seem to interact directly with promoter sequence; instead, we adduce that these residues participate allosterically by contributing to correct region folding and/or positioning of the HTH motif. We propose that transcriptional laxity is a mechanism for ensuring transcription in spite of naturally occurring mutations from endogenous promoters and/or horizontally transferred DNA sequences, allowing survival and fast environmental adaptation of α-proteobacteria. 	2016	Santillán, Orlando; Santillán, O; Santillán; Ramírez-Romero, Miguel A; Ramírez-Romero, MA; Ramírez-Romero; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Checa, Alberto; Checa, A; Checa; Encarnación, Sergio M; Encarnación, SM; Encarnación; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila	Front Microbiol
27389261	Draft Genome Sequence of a Hypermucoviscous Extended-Spectrum-β-Lactamase-Producing Klebsiella quasipneumoniae subsp. similipneumoniae Clinical Isolate.	A clinical isolate of extended-spectrum-β-lactamase-producing Klebsiella quasipneumoniae subsp. similipneumoniae 06-219 with hypermucoviscosity phenotypes obtained from a urine culture of an adult patient was used for whole-genome sequencing. Here, we report the draft genome sequences of this strain, consisting of 53 contigs with an ~5.6-Mb genome size and an average G+C content of 57.36%. The annotation revealed 6,622 coding DNA sequences and 77 tRNA genes. 	2016 Jul	Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos; Silva-Sánchez, J; Silva-Sánchez, J; Silva-Sánchez; Catalán-Nájera, J; Catalán-Nájera, J; Catalán-Nájera; Barrios, H; Barrios, H; Barrios; Rodríguez-Medina, N; Rodríguez-Medina, N; Rodríguez-Medina; Garza-González, E; Garza-González, E; Garza-González; Cevallos, M A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Lozano, L; Lozano, L; Lozano	Genome Announc
27289097	Late Mitochondrial Acquisition, Really?	This article provides a timely critique of a recent Nature paper by Pittis and Gabaldón that has suggested a late origin of mitochondria in eukaryote evolution. It shows that the inferred ancestry of many mitochondrial proteins has been incorrectly assigned by Pittis and Gabaldón to bacteria other than the aerobic proteobacteria from which the ancestor of mitochondria originates, thereby questioning the validity of their suggestion that mitochondrial acquisition may be a late event in eukaryote evolution. The analysis and approach presented here may guide future studies to resolve the true ancestry of mitochondria.	2016 07	Degli Esposti, Mauro; Degli Esposti, M; Degli Esposti	Genome Biol Evol
26732875	Proteomic and morphometric study of the in vitro interaction between Oncidium sphacelatum Lindl. (Orchidaceae) and Thanatephorus sp. RG26 (Ceratobasidiaceae).	Orchidaceae establish symbiotic relationships with fungi in the Rhizoctonia group, resulting in interactions beneficial to both organisms or in cell destruction in one of them (pathogenicity). Previous studies have focused mostly on terrestrial species with a few, preliminary studies, on epiphytes. To further our understanding of the molecular mechanisms involved in these symbioses, we evaluated the interaction between Oncidium sphacelatum Lindl. and the mycorrhizal fungus Thanatephorus sp. strain RG26 (isolated from a different orchid species) in vitro using morphometric and proteomic analyses. Evidence from the morphometric and microscopic analysis showed that the fungus promoted linear growth and differentiation of orchid protocorms during 98 days interaction. On day 63, protocorm development was evident, so we analyzed the physiological response of both organisms at that moment. Proteome results suggest that orchid development stimulated by the fungus apparently involves cell cycle proteins, purine recycling, ribosome biogenesis, energy metabolism, and secretion that were up-regulated in the orchid; whereas in the fungus, a high expression of proteins implicated in stress response, protein-protein interaction, and saccharides and protein biosynthesis were found in the symbiotic interaction. This is the first work reporting proteins differentially expressed in the epiphytic orchid-fungus interaction and will contribute to the search for molecular markers that will facilitate the study of this symbiosis in both wild orchids and those in danger of extinction. 	2016 Jul	López-Chávez, Mariana Yadira; López-Chávez, MY; López-Chávez; Guillén-Navarro, Karina; Guillén-Navarro, K; Guillén-Navarro; Bertolini, Vincenzo; Bertolini, V; Bertolini; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Hernández-Ortiz, Magdalena; Hernández-Ortiz, M; Hernández-Ortiz; Sánchez-Moreno, Irene; Sánchez-Moreno, I; Sánchez-Moreno; Damon, Anne; Damon, A; Damon	Mycorrhiza
27357704	Site-specific bacterial chromosome engineering mediated by IntA integrase from Rhizobium etli.	The bacterial chromosome may be used to stably maintain foreign DNA in the mega-base range. Integration into the chromosome circumvents issues such as plasmid replication, stability, incompatibility, and copy number variance. The site-specific integrase IntA from Rhizobium etli CFN42 catalyzes a direct recombination between two specific DNA sites: attA and attD (23 bp). This recombination is stable. The aim of this work was to develop a R. etli derivative that may be used as recipient for the integration of foreign DNA in the chromosome, adapting the IntA catalyzed site-specific recombination system.	2016 06	Hernández-Tamayo, Rogelio; Hernández-Tamayo, R; Hernández-Tamayo; Torres-Tejerizo, Gonzalo; Torres-Tejerizo, G; Torres-Tejerizo; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero	BMC Microbiol
27446001	Fungal Community Associated with Dactylopius (Hemiptera: Coccoidea: Dactylopiidae) and Its Role in Uric Acid Metabolism.	We studied fungal species associated with the carmine cochineal Dactylopius coccus and other non-domesticated Dactylopius species using culture-dependent and -independent methods. Thirty seven fungi were isolated in various culture media from insect males and females from different developmental stages and Dactylopius species. 26S rRNA genes and ITS sequences, from cultured fungal isolates revealed different species of Cryptococcus, Rhodotorula, Debaryomyces, Trametes, and Penicillium, which are genera newly associated with Dactylopius. Uric acid (UA) and uricase activity were detected in tissues extracts from different insect developmental stages. However, accumulation of high UA levels and low uricase activities were found only after antifungal treatments, suggesting an important role of fungal species in its metabolism. Additionally, uricolytic fungal isolates were identified and characterized that presumably are involved in nitrogen recycling metabolism. After metagenomic analyses from D. coccus gut and hemolymph DNA and from two published data sets, we confirmed the presence of fungal genes involved in UA catabolism, suggesting that fungi help in the nitrogen recycling process in Dactylopius by uricolysis. All these results show the importance of fungal communities in scale insects such as Dactylopius. 	2016	Vera-Ponce de León, Arturo; Vera-Ponce de León, A; Vera-Ponce de León; Sanchez-Flores, Alejandro; Sanchez-Flores, A; Sanchez-Flores; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Front Microbiol
27335086	The space of enzyme regulation in HeLa cells can be inferred from its intracellular metabolome.	During the transition from a healthy state to a cancerous one, cells alter their metabolism to increase proliferation. The underlying metabolic alterations may be caused by a variety of different regulatory events on the transcriptional or post-transcriptional level whose identification contributes to the rational design of therapeutic targets. We present a mechanistic strategy capable of inferring enzymatic regulation from intracellular metabolome measurements that is independent of the actual mechanism of regulation. Here, enzyme activities are expressed by the space of all feasible kinetic constants (k-cone) such that the alteration between two phenotypes is given by their corresponding kinetic spaces. Deriving an expression for the transformation of the healthy to the cancer k-cone we identified putative regulated enzymes between the HeLa and HaCaT cell lines. We show that only a few enzymatic activities change between those two cell lines and that this regulation does not depend on gene transcription but is instead post-transcriptional. Here, we identify phosphofructokinase as the major driver of proliferation in HeLa cells and suggest an optional regulatory program, associated with oxidative stress, that affects the activity of the pentose phosphate pathway.	2016 06	Diener, Christian; Diener, C; Diener; Muñoz-Gonzalez, Felipe; Muñoz-Gonzalez, F; Muñoz-Gonzalez; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Resendis-Antonio, Osbaldo; Resendis-Antonio, O; Resendis-Antonio	Sci Rep
27106049	A survey of the energy metabolism of nodulating symbionts reveals a new form of respiratory complex I.	A limiting factor in agriculture is the availability of nitrogen in the soil, which may be compensated by biological N2 fixation catalysed by bacteria. Most biological N2 fixation occurs in root nodules of plants that respond to bacterial infection by establishing symbiosis with selected prokaryotes. The plants provide energy metabolites and a microoxic environment to the bacterial symbionts to facilitate their capacity of N2 fixation. Despite enormous advances in the molecular genetics of this symbiosis between plants and nodulating bacteria, we still do not understand fundamental aspects which determine the efficiency of N2 fixation in the nodules, and therefore the capacity to biologically enrich agricultural soils. Here we provide an overview of the central features of the energy metabolism that sustains N2 fixation, with emphasis on the bacterial respiratory chain supplying the electrons and ATP required for the nitrogenase reaction. We discuss common trends and specific variations in the integrated process of respiratory electron transport and N2 fixation. Among such variations we introduce green complex I, an ancient version of NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase that is present in several Rhizobiaceae and may facilitate N2 fixation. 	2016 Jun	Degli Esposti, Mauro; Degli Esposti, M; Degli Esposti; Martinez Romero, Esperanza; Martinez Romero, E; Martinez Romero	FEMS Microbiol Ecol
27010660	Expanding the regulatory network that controls nitrogen fixation in Sinorhizobium meliloti: elucidating the role of the two-component system hFixL-FxkR.	In Sinorhizobium meliloti, nitrogen fixation is regulated in response to oxygen concentration through the FixL-FixJ two-component system (TCS). Besides this conserved TCS, the field isolate SM11 also encodes the hFixL-FxkR TCS, which is responsible for the microoxic response in Rhizobium etli. Through genetic and physiological assays, we evaluated the role of the hFixL-FxkR TCS in S. meliloti SM11. Our results revealed that this regulatory system activates the expression of a fixKf orthologue (fixKa), in response to low oxygen concentration. Null mutations in either hFixL or FxkR promote upregulation of fixK1, a direct target of FixJ. Furthermore, the absence of this TCS translates into higher nitrogen fixation values as well as higher expression of fixN1 in nodules. Individual mutations in each of the fixK-like regulators encoded in the S. meliloti SM11 genome do not completely restrict fixN1 or fixN2 expression, pointing towards redundancy among these regulators. Both copies of fixN are necessary to achieve optimal levels of nitrogen fixation. This work provides evidence that the hFixL-FxkR TCS is activated in response to low oxygen concentration in S. meliloti SM11 and that it negatively regulates the expression of fixK1, fixN1 and nitrogen fixation.	2016 06	Reyes-González, Alma; Reyes-González, A; Reyes-González; Talbi, Chouhra; Talbi, C; Talbi; Rodríguez, Susana; Rodríguez, S; Rodríguez; Rivera, Patricia; Rivera, P; Rivera; Zamorano-Sánchez, David; Zamorano-Sánchez, D; Zamorano-Sánchez; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard	Microbiology (Reading)
27351952	Quantification and Classification of E. coli Proteome Utilization and Unused Protein Costs across Environments.	The costs and benefits of protein expression are balanced through evolution. Expression of un-utilized protein (that have no benefits in the current environment) incurs a quantifiable fitness costs on cellular growth rates; however, the magnitude and variability of un-utilized protein expression in natural settings is unknown, largely due to the challenge in determining environment-specific proteome utilization. We address this challenge using absolute and global proteomics data combined with a recently developed genome-scale model of Escherichia coli that computes the environment-specific cost and utility of the proteome on a per gene basis. We show that nearly half of the proteome mass is unused in certain environments and accounting for the cost of this unused protein expression explains >95% of the variance in growth rates of Escherichia coli across 16 distinct environments. Furthermore, reduction in unused protein expression is shown to be a common mechanism to increase cellular growth rates in adaptive evolution experiments. Classification of the unused protein reveals that the unused protein encodes several nutrient- and stress- preparedness functions, which may convey fitness benefits in varying environments. Thus, unused protein expression is the source of large and pervasive fitness costs that may provide the benefit of hedging against environmental change.	2016 06	O'Brien, Edward J; O'Brien, EJ; O'Brien; Utrilla, Jose; Utrilla, J; Utrilla; Palsson, Bernhard O; Palsson, BO; Palsson	PLoS Comput Biol
27271618	Regulation of Small RNAs and Corresponding Targets in Nod Factor-Induced Phaseolus vulgaris Root Hair Cells.	A genome-wide analysis identified the set of small RNAs (sRNAs) from the agronomical important legume Phaseolus vulgaris (common bean), including novel P. vulgaris-specific microRNAs (miRNAs) potentially important for the regulation of the rhizobia-symbiotic process. Generally, novel miRNAs are difficult to identify and study because they are very lowly expressed in a tissue- or cell-specific manner. In this work, we aimed to analyze sRNAs from common bean root hairs (RH), a single-cell model, induced with pure Rhizobium etli nodulation factors (NF), a unique type of signal molecule. The sequence analysis of samples from NF-induced and control libraries led to the identity of 132 mature miRNAs, including 63 novel miRNAs and 1984 phasiRNAs. From these, six miRNAs were significantly differentially expressed during NF induction, including one novel miRNA: miR-RH82. A parallel degradome analysis of the same samples revealed 29 targets potentially cleaved by novel miRNAs specifically in NF-induced RH samples; however, these novel miRNAs were not differentially accumulated in this tissue. This study reveals Phaseolus vulgaris-specific novel miRNA candidates and their corresponding targets that meet all criteria to be involved in the regulation of the early nodulation events, thus setting the basis for exploring miRNA-mediated improvement of the common bean-rhizobia symbiosis. 	2016 Jun	Formey, Damien; Formey, D; Formey; Martín-Rodríguez, José Ángel; Martín-Rodríguez, JÁ; Martín-Rodríguez; Leija, Alfonso; Leija, A; Leija; Santana, Olivia; Santana, O; Santana; Quinto, Carmen; Quinto, C; Quinto; Cárdenas, Luis; Cárdenas, L; Cárdenas; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	Int J Mol Sci
27242034	Abasy Atlas: a comprehensive inventory of systems, global network properties and systems-level elements across bacteria.	The availability of databases electronically encoding curated regulatory networks and of high-throughput technologies and methods to discover regulatory interactions provides an invaluable source of data to understand the principles underpinning the organization and evolution of these networks responsible for cellular regulation. Nevertheless, data on these sources never goes beyond the regulon level despite the fact that regulatory networks are complex hierarchical-modular structures still challenging our understanding. This brings the necessity for an inventory of systems across a large range of organisms, a key step to rendering feasible comparative systems biology approaches. In this work, we take the first step towards a global understanding of the regulatory networks organization by making a cartography of the functional architectures of diverse bacteria. Abasy ( A: cross- BA: cteria SY: stems) Atlas provides a comprehensive inventory of annotated functional systems, global network properties and systems-level elements (global regulators, modular genes shaping functional systems, basal machinery genes and intermodular genes) predicted by the natural decomposition approach for reconstructed and meta-curated regulatory networks across a large range of bacteria, including pathogenically and biotechnologically relevant organisms. The meta-curation of regulatory datasets provides the most complete and reliable set of regulatory interactions currently available, which can even be projected into subsets by considering the force or weight of evidence supporting them or the systems that they belong to. Besides, Abasy Atlas provides data enabling large-scale comparative systems biology studies aimed at understanding the common principles and particular lifestyle adaptions of systems across bacteria. Abasy Atlas contains systems and system-level elements for 50 regulatory networks comprising 78 649 regulatory interactions covering 42 bacteria in nine taxa, containing 3708 regulons and 1776 systems. All this brings together a large corpus of data that will surely inspire studies to generate hypothesis regarding the principles governing the evolution and organization of systems and the functional architectures controlling them.Database URL: http://abasy.ccg.unam.mx.	2016	Ibarra-Arellano, Miguel A; Ibarra-Arellano, MA; Ibarra-Arellano; Campos-González, Adrián I; Campos-González, AI; Campos-González; Treviño-Quintanilla, Luis G; Treviño-Quintanilla, LG; Treviño-Quintanilla; Tauch, Andreas; Tauch, A; Tauch; Freyre-González, Julio A; Freyre-González, JA; Freyre-González	Database (Oxford)
27150362	Whole-Genome Sequencing for Routine Pathogen Surveillance in Public Health: a Population Snapshot of Invasive Staphylococcus aureus in Europe.	The implementation of routine whole-genome sequencing (WGS) promises to transform our ability to monitor the emergence and spread of bacterial pathogens. Here we combined WGS data from 308 invasive Staphylococcus aureus isolates corresponding to a pan-European population snapshot, with epidemiological and resistance data. Geospatial visualization of the data is made possible by a generic software tool designed for public health purposes that is available at the project URL (http://www.microreact.org/project/EkUvg9uY?tt=rc). Our analysis demonstrates that high-risk clones can be identified on the basis of population level properties such as clonal relatedness, abundance, and spatial structuring and by inferring virulence and resistance properties on the basis of gene content. We also show that in silico predictions of antibiotic resistance profiles are at least as reliable as phenotypic testing. We argue that this work provides a comprehensive road map illustrating the three vital components for future molecular epidemiological surveillance: (i) large-scale structured surveys, (ii) WGS, and (iii) community-oriented database infrastructure and analysis tools.	2016 05	Aanensen, David M; Aanensen, DM; Aanensen; Feil, Edward J; Feil, EJ; Feil; Holden, Matthew T G; Holden, MT; Holden; Dordel, Janina; Dordel, J; Dordel; Yeats, Corin A; Yeats, CA; Yeats; Fedosejev, Artemij; Fedosejev, A; Fedosejev; Goater, Richard; Goater, R; Goater; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Corander, Jukka; Corander, J; Corander; Colijn, Caroline; Colijn, C; Colijn; Chlebowicz, Monika A; Chlebowicz, MA; Chlebowicz; Schouls, Leo; Schouls, L; Schouls; Heck, Max; Heck, M; Heck; Pluister, Gerlinde; Pluister, G; Pluister; Ruimy, Raymond; Ruimy, R; Ruimy; Kahlmeter, Gunnar; Kahlmeter, G; Kahlmeter; Åhman, Jenny; Åhman, J; Åhman; Matuschek, Erika; Matuschek, E; Matuschek; Friedrich, Alexander W; Friedrich, AW; Friedrich; Parkhill, Julian; Parkhill, J; Parkhill; Bentley, Stephen D; Bentley, SD; Bentley; Spratt, Brian G; Spratt, BG; Spratt; Grundmann, Hajo; Grundmann, H; Grundmann; European SRL Working Group	mBio
27066241	Independent origins of resistance or susceptibility of parasitic wasps to a defensive symbiont.	Insect microbe associations are diverse, widespread, and influential. Among the fitness effects of microbes on their hosts, defense against natural enemies is increasingly recognized as ubiquitous, particularly among those associations involving heritable, yet facultative, bacteria. Protective mutualisms generate complex ecological and coevolutionary dynamics that are only beginning to be elucidated. These depend in part on the degree to which symbiont-mediated protection exhibits specificity to one or more members of the natural enemy community. Recent findings in a well-studied defensive mutualism system (i.e., aphids, bacteria, parasitoid wasps) reveal repeated instances of evolution of susceptibility or resistance to defensive bacteria by parasitoids. This study searched for similar patterns in an emerging model system for defensive mutualisms: the interaction of Drosophila, bacteria in the genus Spiroplasma, and wasps that parasitize larval stages of Drosophila. Previous work indicated that three divergent species of parasitic wasps are strongly inhibited by the presence of Spiroplasma in three divergent species of Drosophila, including D. melanogaster. The results of this study uncovered two additional wasp species that are susceptible to Spiroplasma and two that are unaffected by Spiroplasma, implying at least two instances of loss or gain of susceptibility to Spiroplasma among larval parasitoids of Drosophila. 	2016 May	Mateos, Mariana; Mateos, M; Mateos; Winter, Lauryn; Winter, L; Winter; Winter, Caitlyn; Winter, C; Winter; Higareda-Alvear, Victor M; Higareda-Alvear, VM; Higareda-Alvear; Martinez-Romero, Esperanza; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Xie, Jialei; Xie, J; Xie	Ecol Evol
26058415	Species-specific diversity of novel bacterial lineages and differential abundance of predicted pathways for toxic compound degradation in scorpion gut microbiota.	Scorpions are considered 'living fossils' that have conserved ancestral anatomical features and have adapted to numerous habitats. However, their gut microbiota diversity has not been studied. Here, we characterized the gut microbiota of two scorpion species, Vaejovis smithi and Centruroides limpidus. Our results indicate that scorpion gut microbiota is species-specific and that food deprivation reduces bacterial diversity. 16S rRNA gene phylogenetic analysis revealed novel bacterial lineages showing a low level of sequence identity to any known bacteria. Furthermore, these novel bacterial lineages were each restricted to a different scorpion species. Additionally, our results of the predicted metagenomic profiles revealed a core set of pathways that were highly abundant in both species, and mostly related to amino acid, carbohydrate, vitamin and cofactor metabolism. Notably, the food-deprived V. smithi shotgun metagenome matched almost completely the metabolic features of the prediction. Finally, comparisons among predicted metagenomic profiles showed that toxic compound degradation pathways were more abundant in recently captured C. limpidus scorpions. This study gives a first insight into the scorpion gut microbiota and provides a reference for future studies on the gut microbiota from other arachnid species.	2016 05	Bolaños, Luis M; Bolaños, LM; Bolaños; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Figuier-Huttin, Gilles; Figuier-Huttin, G; Figuier-Huttin; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Environ Microbiol
27125479	Draft Genome Sequence of Burkholderia cenocepacia Strain CEIB S5-2, a Methyl Parathion- and p-Nitrophenol-Degrading Bacterium, Isolated from Agricultural Soils in Morelos, Mexico.	Burkholderia cenocepacia is an opportunistic pathogen that belongs to Burkholderia cepacia complex (BCC). Burkholderia cenocepacia strain CEIB S5-2 was isolated from agricultural soils in Morelos, Mexico, and previously has shown its abilities for bioremediation. In this study, we report the draft genome sequence of Burkholderia cenocepacia strain CEIB S5-2. 	2016 Apr	Martínez-Ocampo, Fernando; Martínez-Ocampo, F; Martínez-Ocampo; Fernández López, Maikel Gilberto; Fernández López, MG; Fernández López; Lozano-Aguirre Beltrán, Luis Fernando; Lozano-Aguirre Beltrán, LF; Lozano-Aguirre Beltrán; Popoca-Ursino, Elida Carolina; Popoca-Ursino, EC; Popoca-Ursino; Ortiz-Hernández, M Laura; Ortiz-Hernández, ML; Ortiz-Hernández; Sánchez-Salinas, Enrique; Sánchez-Salinas, E; Sánchez-Salinas; Ramos Quintana, Fernando; Ramos Quintana, F; Ramos Quintana; Villalobos-López, Miguel A; Villalobos-López, MA; Villalobos-López; Dantán-González, Edgar; Dantán-González, E; Dantán-González	Genome Announc
27135538	Global Rebalancing of Cellular Resources by Pleiotropic Point Mutations Illustrates a Multi-scale Mechanism of Adaptive Evolution.	Pleiotropic regulatory mutations affect diverse cellular processes, posing a challenge to our understanding of genotype-phenotype relationships across multiple biological scales. Adaptive laboratory evolution (ALE) allows for such mutations to be found and characterized in the context of clear selection pressures. Here, several ALE-selected single-mutation variants in RNA polymerase (RNAP) of Escherichia coli are detailed using an integrated multi-scale experimental and computational approach. While these mutations increase cellular growth rates in steady environments, they reduce tolerance to stress and environmental fluctuations. We detail structural changes in the RNAP that rewire the transcriptional machinery to rebalance proteome and energy allocation toward growth and away from several hedging and stress functions. We find that while these mutations occur in diverse locations in the RNAP, they share a common adaptive mechanism. In turn, these findings highlight the resource allocation trade-offs organisms face and suggest how the structure of the regulatory network enhances evolvability.	2016 04	Utrilla, Jose; Utrilla, J; Utrilla; O'Brien, Edward J; O'Brien, EJ; O'Brien; Chen, Ke; Chen, K; Chen; McCloskey, Douglas; McCloskey, D; McCloskey; Cheung, Jacky; Cheung, J; Cheung; Wang, Harris; Wang, H; Wang; Armenta-Medina, Dagoberto; Armenta-Medina, D; Armenta-Medina; Feist, Adam M; Feist, AM; Feist; Palsson, Bernhard O; Palsson, BO; Palsson	Cell Syst
26780421	The Innate Immune Signaling System as a Regulator of Disease Resistance and Induced Systemic Resistance Activity Against Verticillium dahliae.	In the last decades, the plant innate immune responses against pathogens have been extensively studied, while biocontrol interactions between soilborne fungal pathogens and their hosts have received much less attention. Treatment of Arabidopsis thaliana with the nonpathogenic bacterium Paenibacillus alvei K165 was shown previously to protect against Verticillium dahliae by triggering induced systemic resistance (ISR). In the present study, we evaluated the involvement of the innate immune response in the K165-mediated protection of Arabidopsis against V. dahliae. Tests with Arabidopsis mutants impaired in several regulators of the early steps of the innate immune responses, including fls2, efr-1, bak1-4, mpk3, mpk6, wrky22, and wrky29 showed that FLS2 and WRKY22 have a central role in the K165-triggered ISR, while EFR1, MPK3, and MPK6 are possible susceptibility factors for V. dahliae and bak1 shows a tolerance phenomenon. The resistance induced by strain K165 is dependent on both salicylate and jasmonate-dependent defense pathways, as evidenced by an increased transient accumulation of PR1 and PDF1.2 transcripts in the aerial parts of infected plants treated with strain K165. 	2016 Apr	Gkizi, Danai; Gkizi, D; Gkizi; Lehmann, Silke; Lehmann, S; Lehmann; L'Haridon, Floriane; L'Haridon, F; L'Haridon; Serrano, Mario; Serrano, M; Serrano; Paplomatas, Epaminondas J; Paplomatas, EJ; Paplomatas; Métraux, Jean-Pierre; Métraux, JP; Métraux; Tjamos, Sotirios E; Tjamos, SE; Tjamos	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
26988045	Complete Genome Sequence of Bradyrhizobium sp. Strain CCGE-LA001, Isolated from Field Nodules of the Enigmatic Wild Bean Phaseolus microcarpus.	We present the complete genome sequence of Bradyrhizobium sp. strain CCGE-LA001, a nitrogen-fixing bacterium isolated from nodules of Phaseolus microcarpus. Strain CCGE-LA001 represents the first sequenced bradyrhizobial strain obtained from a wild Phaseolus sp. Its genome revealed a large and novel symbiotic island. 	2016 Mar	Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis E; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Zayas-Del Moral, Alejandra; Zayas-Del Moral, A; Zayas-Del Moral; Sánchez, Federico; Sánchez, F; Sánchez; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Genome Announc
26912775	Regulation of differentiation flux by Notch signalling influences the number of dopaminergic neurons in the adult brain.	Notch signalling is a well-established pathway that regulates neurogenesis. However, little is known about the role of Notch signalling in specific neuronal differentiation. Using Dll1 null mice, we found that Notch signalling has no function in the specification of mesencephalic dopaminergic neural precursor cells (NPCs), but plays an important role in regulating their expansion and differentiation into neurons. Premature neuronal differentiation was observed in mesencephalons of Dll1-deficient mice or after treatment with a Notch signalling inhibitor. Coupling between neurogenesis and dopaminergic differentiation was indicated from the coincident emergence of neuronal and dopaminergic markers. Early in differentiation, decreasing Notch signalling caused a reduction in NPCs and an increase in dopaminergic neurons in association with dynamic changes in the proportion of sequentially-linked dopaminergic NPCs (Msx1/2+, Ngn2+, Nurr1+). These effects in differentiation caused a significant reduction in the number of dopaminergic neurons produced. Accordingly, Dll1 haploinsufficient adult mice, in comparison with their wild-type littermates, have a consistent reduction in neuronal density that was particularly evident in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Our results are in agreement with a mathematical model based on a Dll1-mediated regulatory feedback loop between early progenitors and their dividing precursors that controls the emergence and number of dopaminergic neurons. 	2016 Feb	Trujillo-Paredes, Niurka; Trujillo-Paredes, N; Trujillo-Paredes; Valencia, Concepción; Valencia, C; Valencia; Guerrero-Flores, Gilda; Guerrero-Flores, G; Guerrero-Flores; Arzate, Dulce-María; Arzate, DM; Arzate; Baizabal, José-Manuel; Baizabal, JM; Baizabal; Guerra-Crespo, Magdalena; Guerra-Crespo, M; Guerra-Crespo; Fuentes-Hernández, Ayari; Fuentes-Hernández, A; Fuentes-Hernández; Zea-Armenta, Iván; Zea-Armenta, I; Zea-Armenta; Covarrubias, Luis; Covarrubias, L; Covarrubias	Biol Open
26955886	Trans-Atlantic exchanges have shaped the population structure of the Lyme disease agent Borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto.	The origin and population structure of Borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto (s.s.), the agent of Lyme disease, remain obscure. This tick-transmitted bacterial species occurs in both North America and Europe. We sequenced 17 European isolates (representing the most frequently found sequence types in Europe) and compared these with 17 North American strains. We show that trans-Atlantic exchanges have occurred in the evolutionary history of this species and that a European origin of B. burgdorferi s.s. is marginally more likely than a USA origin. The data further suggest that some European human patients may have acquired their infection in North America. We found three distinct genetically differentiated groups: i) the outgroup species Borrelia bissettii, ii) two divergent strains from Europe, and iii) a group composed of strains from both the USA and Europe. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that different genotypes were likely to have been introduced several times into the same area. Our results demonstrate that irrespective of whether B. burgdorferi s.s. originated in Europe or the USA, later trans-Atlantic exchange(s) have occurred and have shaped the population structure of this genospecies. This study clearly shows the utility of next generation sequencing to obtain a better understanding of the phylogeography of this bacterial species. 	2016 Mar	Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Fingerle, V; Fingerle, V; Fingerle; Jungnick, S; Jungnick, S; Jungnick; Straubinger, R K; Straubinger, RK; Straubinger; Krebs, S; Krebs, S; Krebs; Blum, H; Blum, H; Blum; Meinel, D M; Meinel, DM; Meinel; Hofmann, H; Hofmann, H; Hofmann; Guertler, P; Guertler, P; Guertler; Sing, A; Sing, A; Sing; Margos, G; Margos, G; Margos	Sci Rep
26873555	Antifungal performance of extracellular chitinases and culture supernatants of Streptomyces galilaeus CFFSUR-B12 against Mycosphaerella fijiensis Morelet.	The tropical and mycoparasite strain Streptomyces galilaeus CFFSUR-B12 was evaluated as an antagonist of Mycosphaerella fijiensis Morelet, causal agent of the Black Sigatoka Disease (BSD) of banana. On zymograms of CFFSUR-B12 culture supernatants, we detected four chitinases of approximately 32 kDa (Chi32), 20 kDa (Chi20), and two with masses well over 170 kDa (ChiU) that showed little migration during denaturing electrophoresis at different concentrations of polyacrylamide. The thymol-sulphuric acid assay showed that the ChiU were glycosylated chitinases. Moreover, matrix assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight MS analysis revealed that the ChiU are the same protein and identical to a family 18 chitinase from Streptomyces sp. S4 (gi|498328075). Chi32 was similar to an extracellular protein from Streptomyces albus J1074 (gi|478687481) and Chi20 was non-significantly similar to chitinases from five different strains of Streptomyces (P > 0.05). Subsequently, Chi32 and Chi20 were partially purified by anion exchange and hydrophobic interaction chromatography and tested against M. fijiensis. Chitinases failed to inhibit ascospore germination, but inhibited up to 35 and 62% of germ tube elongation and mycelial growth, respectively. We found that crude culture supernatant and living cells of S. galilaeus CFFSUR-B12 were the most effective in inhibiting M. fijiensis and are potential biocontrol agents of BSD.	2016 Mar	Castillo, Benjamín Moreno; Castillo, BM; Castillo; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Navarro, Karina Guillén; Navarro, KG; Navarro; Meléndez, Francisco Holguín; Meléndez, FH; Meléndez; Ortiz, Magdalena Hernández; Ortiz, MH; Ortiz; Guevara, Sergio Encarnación; Guevara, SE; Guevara; Palacios, Graciela Huerta; Palacios, GH; Palacios	World J Microbiol Biotechnol
26954369	Outbreak Caused by blaOXA-72-Producing Acinetobacter baumannii ST417 Detected in Clinical and Environmental Isolates.	We characterized an outbreak of imipenem-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii with clinical and environmental isolates from a tertiary care hospital in San Luis Potosi, Mexico. During a 4-month period, a total of 32 nonrepetitive imipenem-resistant clinical isolates of A. baumannii were collected. All isolates were susceptible to colistin and tigecycline and resistant to cefepime, ceftazidime, ceftriaxone, imipenem, and meropenem. Genotyping by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis showed a major clone (A). Multilocus sequence type (MLST) analysis was performed, revealing sequence type (ST) 417 (ST417) and 208 (ST208). The blaIMP-, blaVIM-, blaGIM-, blaSIM-, blaNDM-type, and blaOXA-type (blaOXA-23-like, blaOXA-24-like, blaOXA-51-like, and blaOXA-58-like) genes were screened and showed that the blaOXA-51-like and blaOXA-24-like genes were present in all isolates. Sequencing and southern hybridization were performed, confirming the presence of the blaOXA-72 gene and its plasmid-borne nature. In addition, the blaOXA-72-XerC/XerD-like association was identified. These findings indicate that a clonal spread of blaOXA-72-producing A. baumannii ST417 had occurred throughout the hospital. The ST417 corresponded with a previous ST described in the United States. 	2016 Mar	Tamayo-Legorreta, Elsa; Tamayo-Legorreta, E; Tamayo-Legorreta; Turrubiartes-Martínez, Edgar; Turrubiartes-Martínez, E; Turrubiartes-Martínez; Garza-Ramos, Ulises; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos; Niño-Moreno, Perla; Niño-Moreno, P; Niño-Moreno; Barrios, Humberto; Barrios, H; Barrios; Sánchez-Pérez, Alejandro; Sánchez-Pérez, A; Sánchez-Pérez; Reyna-Flores, Fernando; Reyna-Flores, F; Reyna-Flores; Tovar-Oviedo, Juana; Tovar-Oviedo, J; Tovar-Oviedo; Magaña-Aquino, Martin; Magaña-Aquino, M; Magaña-Aquino; Cevallos, Miguel Angel; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Silva-Sanchez, Jesus; Silva-Sanchez, J; Silva-Sanchez	Microb Drug Resist
26586805	COLOMBOS v3.0: leveraging gene expression compendia for cross-species analyses.	COLOMBOS is a database that integrates publicly available transcriptomics data for several prokaryotic model organisms. Compared to the previous version it has more than doubled in size, both in terms of species and data available. The manually curated condition annotation has been overhauled as well, giving more complete information about samples' experimental conditions and their differences. Functionality-wise cross-species analyses now enable users to analyse expression data for all species simultaneously, and identify candidate genes with evolutionary conserved expression behaviour. All the expression-based query tools have undergone a substantial improvement, overcoming the limit of enforced co-expression data retrieval and instead enabling the return of more complex patterns of expression behaviour. COLOMBOS is freely available through a web application at http://colombos.net/. The complete database is also accessible via REST API or downloadable as tab-delimited text files. 	2016 Jan	Moretto, Marco; Moretto, M; Moretto; Sonego, Paolo; Sonego, P; Sonego; Dierckxsens, Nicolas; Dierckxsens, N; Dierckxsens; Brilli, Matteo; Brilli, M; Brilli; Bianco, Luca; Bianco, L; Bianco; Ledezma-Tejeida, Daniela; Ledezma-Tejeida, D; Ledezma-Tejeida; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Galardini, Marco; Galardini, M; Galardini; Romualdi, Chiara; Romualdi, C; Romualdi; Laukens, Kris; Laukens, K; Laukens; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Meysman, Pieter; Meysman, P; Meysman; Engelen, Kristof; Engelen, K; Engelen	Nucleic Acids Res
26527724	RegulonDB version 9.0: high-level integration of gene regulation, coexpression, motif clustering and beyond.	RegulonDB (http://regulondb.ccg.unam.mx) is one of the most useful and important resources on bacterial gene regulation,as it integrates the scattered scientific knowledge of the best-characterized organism, Escherichia coli K-12, in a database that organizes large amounts of data. Its electronic format enables researchers to compare their results with the legacy of previous knowledge and supports bioinformatics tools and model building. Here, we summarize our progress with RegulonDB since our last Nucleic Acids Research publication describing RegulonDB, in 2013. In addition to maintaining curation up-to-date, we report a collection of 232 interactions with small RNAs affecting 192 genes, and the complete repertoire of 189 Elementary Genetic Sensory-Response units (GENSOR units), integrating the signal, regulatory interactions, and metabolic pathways they govern. These additions represent major progress to a higher level of understanding of regulated processes. We have updated the computationally predicted transcription factors, which total 304 (184 with experimental evidence and 120 from computational predictions); we updated our position-weight matrices and have included tools for clustering them in evolutionary families. We describe our semiautomatic strategy to accelerate curation, including datasets from high-throughput experiments, a novel coexpression distance to search for 'neighborhood' genes to known operons and regulons, and computational developments. 	2016 Jan	Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Ledezma-Tejeida, Daniela; Ledezma-Tejeida, D; Ledezma-Tejeida; Muñiz-Rascado, Luis; Muñiz-Rascado, L; Muñiz-Rascado; García-Sotelo, Jair Santiago; García-Sotelo, JS; García-Sotelo; Alquicira-Hernández, Kevin; Alquicira-Hernández, K; Alquicira-Hernández; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; Pannier, Lucia; Pannier, L; Pannier; Castro-Mondragón, Jaime Abraham; Castro-Mondragón, JA; Castro-Mondragón; Medina-Rivera, Alejandra; Medina-Rivera, A; Medina-Rivera; Solano-Lira, Hilda; Solano-Lira, H; Solano-Lira; Bonavides-Martínez, César; Bonavides-Martínez, C; Bonavides-Martínez; Pérez-Rueda, Ernesto; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda; Alquicira-Hernández, Shirley; Alquicira-Hernández, S; Alquicira-Hernández; Porrón-Sotelo, Liliana; Porrón-Sotelo, L; Porrón-Sotelo; López-Fuentes, Alejandra; López-Fuentes, A; López-Fuentes; Hernández-Koutoucheva, Anastasia; Hernández-Koutoucheva, A; Hernández-Koutoucheva; Del Moral-Chávez, Víctor; Del Moral-Chávez, V; Del Moral-Chávez; Rinaldi, Fabio; Rinaldi, F; Rinaldi; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
27340065	Complete Genome Sequence of a Multidrug-Resistant Acinetobacter baumannii Isolate Obtained from a Mexican Hospital (Sequence Type 422).	Acinetobacter baumannii has emerged as a dangerous nosocomial pathogen, particularly for severely ill patients in intensive care units and patients with hematologic malignancies. Here, we present the complete genome sequence of a multidrug-resistant A. baumannii isolate, recovered from a Mexican hospital and classified as sequence type 422 according to the multilocus sequence typing Pasteur scheme. 	2016 Jun	Castro-Jaimes, Semiramis; Castro-Jaimes, S; Castro-Jaimes; Salgado-Camargo, Abraham David; Salgado-Camargo, AD; Salgado-Camargo; Graña-Miraglia, Lucía; Graña-Miraglia, L; Graña-Miraglia; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Bocanegra-Ibarias, Paola; Bocanegra-Ibarias, P; Bocanegra-Ibarias; Volkow-Fernández, Patricia; Volkow-Fernández, P; Volkow-Fernández; Silva-Sanchez, Jesus; Silva-Sanchez, J; Silva-Sanchez; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	Genome Announc
26769924	Complete Genome Sequence of Helicobacter pylori Strain 29CaP Isolated from a Mexican Patient with Gastric Cancer.	Helicobacter pylori infection is a risk factor for the development of gastric cancer and other gastroduodenal diseases. We report here the complete genome sequence of H. pylori strain 29CaP, isolated from a Mexican patient with gastric cancer. The genomic data analysis revealed a cag-negative H. pylori strain that contains a prophage sequence. 	2016 Jan	Mucito-Varela, Eduardo; Mucito-Varela, E; Mucito-Varela; Castillo-Rojas, Gonzalo; Castillo-Rojas, G; Castillo-Rojas; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Merino, Enrique; Merino, E; Merino; López-Leal, Gamaliel; López-Leal, G; López-Leal; López-Vidal, Yolanda; López-Vidal, Y; López-Vidal	Genome Announc
26744372	Complete Genome Sequence of Helicobacter pylori Strain 7C Isolated from a Mexican Patient with Chronic Gastritis.	Helicobacter pylori-induced gastritis is a risk factor for developing gastric pathologies. Here, we report the complete genome sequence of a multidrug-resistant H. pylori strain isolated from a chronic gastritis patient in Mexico City, Mexico. Nonvirulent VacA and cag-pathogenicity island (PAI) genotypes were found, but the presence of a potential mobilizable plasmid carrying an IS605 element is of outstanding interest. 	2016 Jan	Mucito-Varela, Eduardo; Mucito-Varela, E; Mucito-Varela; Castillo-Rojas, Gonzalo; Castillo-Rojas, G; Castillo-Rojas; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Merino, Enrique; Merino, E; Merino; López-Leal, Gamaliel; López-Leal, G; López-Leal; López-Vidal, Yolanda; López-Vidal, Y; López-Vidal	Genome Announc
27081133	Complete Genome Sequence of Salmonella enterica Serovar Typhimurium Strain SO2 (Sequence Type 302) Isolated from an Asymptomatic Child in Mexico.	The complete genome sequence ofSalmonella entericaserovar Typhimurium strain SO2, isolated from an asymptomatic child in Mexico, was determined using PacBio single-molecule real-time technology. Strain SO2 has six complete chromosomal prophages, namely, ST104, Gifsy-2, ST64B, Gifsy-1, ELPhiS, and FSL SP-004, and carries aSalmonellavirulence plasmid. 	2016 Apr	Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva; Calva, Edmundo; Calva, E; Calva; Puente, José L; Puente, JL; Puente; Zaidi, Mussaret B; Zaidi, MB; Zaidi; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa	Genome Announc
27103717	Complete Genome Sequence of Salmonella enterica Serovar Typhimurium Strain SO3 (Sequence Type 302) Isolated from a Baby with Meningitis in Mexico.	The complete genome of ITALIC! Salmonella entericaserovar Typhimurium strain SO3 (sequence type 302), isolated from a fatal meningitis infection in Mexico, was determined using PacBio technology. The chromosome hosts six complete prophages and is predicted to harbor 51 genomic islands, including 13 pathogenicity islands (SPIs). It carries the ITALIC! Salmonellavirulence plasmid (pSTV). 	2016 Apr	Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Puente, José L; Puente, JL; Puente; Calva, Edmundo; Calva, E; Calva; Zaidi, Mussaret B; Zaidi, MB; Zaidi; Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva	Genome Announc
27081132	Complete Genome Sequence of Salmonella enterica Serovar Typhimurium Strain YU15 (Sequence Type 19) Harboring the Salmonella Genomic Island 1 and Virulence Plasmid pSTV.	The complete genome ofSalmonella entericasubsp.entericaserovar Typhimurium sequence type 19 (ST19) strain YU15, isolated in Yucatán, Mexico, from a human baby stool culture, was determined using PacBio technology. The chromosome contains five intact prophages and theSalmonellagenomic island 1 (SGI1). This strain carries theSalmonellavirulence plasmid pSTV. 	2016 Apr	Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva; Calva, Edmundo; Calva, E; Calva; Puente, José L; Puente, JL; Puente; Zaidi, Mussaret B; Zaidi, MB; Zaidi; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa	Genome Announc
26798087	Complete Genome Sequence of Serratia marcescens SmUNAM836, a Nonpigmented Multidrug-Resistant Strain Isolated from a Mexican Patient with Obstructive Pulmonary Disease.	Serratia marcescens SmUNAM836 is a multidrug-resistant clinical strain isolated in Mexico City from a patient with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Its complete genome sequence was determined using PacBio RS II SMRT technology, consisting of a 5.2-Mb chromosome and a 26.3-kb plasmid, encoding multiple resistance determinants and virulence factors. 	2016 Jan	Sandner-Miranda, Luisa; Sandner-Miranda, L; Sandner-Miranda; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Soberón-Chávez, Gloria; Soberón-Chávez, G; Soberón-Chávez; Morales-Espinosa, Rosario; Morales-Espinosa, R; Morales-Espinosa	Genome Announc
27013046	Draft Genome Sequence of an Endophytic Actinoplanes Species, Encoding Uncommon trans-Acyltransferase Polyketide Synthases.	Actinoplanesis an endophytic actinobacterium isolated from the medicinal plantAmphipterygium adstringens The strain draft genome sequence reveals a gene cluster involved in the biosynthesis of a hybridtrans-acyltransferase (AT) polyketide, an unconventional bioactive metabolite never reported before in the genusActinoplanes. 	2016 Mar	Centeno-Leija, Sara; Centeno-Leija, S; Centeno-Leija; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Rodríguez-Peña, Karol; Rodríguez-Peña, K; Rodríguez-Peña; Trenado-Uribe, Miriam; Trenado-Uribe, M; Trenado-Uribe; Cárdenas-Conejo, Yair; Cárdenas-Conejo, Y; Cárdenas-Conejo; Serrano-Posada, Hugo; Serrano-Posada, H; Serrano-Posada; Rodríguez-Sanoja, Romina; Rodríguez-Sanoja, R; Rodríguez-Sanoja; Sánchez, Sergio; Sánchez, S; Sánchez	Genome Announc
26214613	Endemic Mimosa species from Mexico prefer alphaproteobacterial rhizobial symbionts.	The legume genus Mimosa has > 500 species, with two major centres of diversity, Brazil (c. 350 spp.) and Mexico (c. 100 spp.). In Brazil most species are nodulated by Burkholderia. Here we asked whether this is also true of native and endemic Mexican species. We have tested this apparent affinity for betaproteobacteria by examining the symbionts of native and endemic species of Mimosa in Mexico, especially from the central highlands where Mimosa spp. have diversified. Nodules were tested for betaproteobacteria using in situ immunolocalization. Rhizobia isolated from the nodules were genetically characterized and tested for their ability to nodulate Mimosa spp. Immunological analysis of 25 host taxa suggested that most (including all the highland endemics) were not nodulated by betaproteobacteria. Phylogenetic analyses of 16S rRNA, recA, nodA, nodC and nifH genes from 87 strains isolated from 20 taxa confirmed that the endemic Mexican Mimosa species favoured alphaproteobacteria in the genera Rhizobium and Ensifer: this was confirmed by nodulation tests. Host phylogeny, geographic isolation and coevolution with symbionts derived from very different soils have potentially contributed to the striking difference in the choice of symbiotic partners by Mexican and Brazilian Mimosa species. 	2016 Jan	Bontemps, Cyril; Bontemps, C; Bontemps; Rogel, Marco Antonio; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Wiechmann, Anja; Wiechmann, A; Wiechmann; Mussabekova, Assel; Mussabekova, A; Mussabekova; Moody, Sarah; Moody, S; Moody; Simon, Marcelo F; Simon, MF; Simon; Moulin, Lionel; Moulin, L; Moulin; Elliott, Geoffrey N; Elliott, GN; Elliott; Lacercat-Didier, Laurence; Lacercat-Didier, L; Lacercat-Didier; Dasilva, Cindy; Dasilva, C; Dasilva; Grether, Rosaura; Grether, R; Grether; Camargo-Ricalde, Sara L; Camargo-Ricalde, SL; Camargo-Ricalde; Chen, Weimin; Chen, W; Chen; Sprent, Janet I; Sprent, JI; Sprent; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Young, J Peter W; Young, JP; Young; James, Euan K; James, EK; James	New Phytol
27199915	Evolution of a Sigma Factor: An All-In-One of Gene Duplication, Horizontal Gene Transfer, Purifying Selection, and Promoter Differentiation.	Sigma factors are an essential part of bacterial gene regulation and have been extensively studied as far as their molecular mechanisms and protein structure are concerned. However, their molecular evolution, especially for the alternative sigma factors, is poorly understood. Here, we analyze the evolutionary forces that have shaped the rpoH sigma factors within the alphaproteobacteria. We found that an ancient duplication gave rise to two major groups of rpoH sigma factors and that after this event horizontal gene transfer (HGT) occurred in rpoH 1 group. We also noted that purifying selection has differentially affected distinct parts of the gene; singularly, the gene segment that encodes the region 4.2, which interacts with the -35 motif of the RpoH-dependent genes, has been under relaxed purifying selection. Furthermore, these two major groups are clearly differentiated from one another regarding their promoter selectivity, as rpoH 1 is under the transcriptional control of σ(70) and σ(32), whereas rpoH 2 is under the transcriptional control of σ(24). Our results suggest a scenario in which HGT, gene loss, variable purifying selection and clear promoter specialization occurred after the ancestral duplication event. More generally, our study offers insights into the molecular evolution of alternative sigma factors and highlights the importance of analyzing not only the coding regions but also the promoter regions. 	2016	López-Leal, Gamaliel; López-Leal, G; López-Leal; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez	Front Microbiol
27013043	First Genome Sequence of a Mexican Multidrug-Resistant Acinetobacter baumannii Isolate.	Acinetobacter baumanniihas emerged as an important nosocomial pathogen worldwide. Here, we present the draft genome of the first multidrug-resistantA. baumanniiisolate, sampled from a tertiary hospital in Mexico City. This genome will provide a starting point for studying the genomic diversity of this species in Mexico. 	2016 Mar	Graña-Miraglia, Lucía; Graña-Miraglia, L; Graña-Miraglia; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Castro-Jaimes, Semiramis; Castro-Jaimes, S; Castro-Jaimes; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Volkow, Patricia; Volkow, P; Volkow; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez	Genome Announc
26733994	Plasticity of Streptomyces coelicolor Membrane Composition Under Different Growth Conditions and During Development.	Streptomyces coelicolor is a model actinomycete that is well known for the diversity of its secondary metabolism and its complex life cycle. As a soil inhabitant, it is exposed to heterogeneous and frequently changing environmental circumstances. In the present work, we studied the effect of diverse growth conditions and phosphate depletion on its lipid profile and the relationship between membrane lipid composition and development in S. coelicolor. The lipid profile from cultures grown on solid media, which is closer to the natural habitat of this microorganism, does not resemble the previously reported lipid composition from liquid grown cultures of S. coelicolor. Wide variations were also observed across different media, growth phases, and developmental stages indicating active membrane remodeling. Ornithine lipids (OL) are phosphorus-free polar lipids that were accumulated mainly during sporulation stages, but were also major components of the membrane under phosphorus limitation. In contrast, phosphatidylethanolamine, which had been reported as one of the major polar lipids in the genus Streptomyces, is almost absent under these conditions. We identified one of the genes responsible for the synthesis of OL (SCO0921) and found that its inactivation causes the absence of OL, precocious morphological development and actinorhodin production. Our observations indicate a remarkable plasticity of the membrane composition in this bacterial species, reveal a higher metabolic complexity than expected, and suggest a relationship between cytoplasmic membrane components and the differentiation programs in S. coelicolor. 	2015	Sandoval-Calderón, Mario; Sandoval-Calderón, M; Sandoval-Calderón; Nguyen, Don D; Nguyen, DD; Nguyen; Kapono, Clifford A; Kapono, CA; Kapono; Herron, Paul; Herron, P; Herron; Dorrestein, Pieter C; Dorrestein, PC; Dorrestein; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	Front Microbiol
26734060	The Road to Metagenomics: From Microbiology to DNA Sequencing Technologies and Bioinformatics.	The study of microorganisms that pervade each and every part of this planet has encountered many challenges through time such as the discovery of unknown organisms and the understanding of how they interact with their environment. The aim of this review is to take the reader along the timeline and major milestones that led us to modern metagenomics. This new and thriving area is likely to be an important contributor to solve different problems. The transition from classical microbiology to modern metagenomics studies has required the development of new branches of knowledge and specialization. Here, we will review how the availability of high-throughput sequencing technologies has transformed microbiology and bioinformatics and how to tackle the inherent computational challenges that arise from the DNA sequencing revolution. New computational methods are constantly developed to collect, process, and extract useful biological information from a variety of samples and complex datasets, but metagenomics needs the integration of several of these computational methods. Despite the level of specialization needed in bioinformatics, it is important that life-scientists have a good understanding of it for a correct experimental design, which allows them to reveal the information in a metagenome. 	2015	Escobar-Zepeda, Alejandra; Escobar-Zepeda, A; Escobar-Zepeda; Vera-Ponce de León, Arturo; Vera-Ponce de León, A; Vera-Ponce de León; Sanchez-Flores, Alejandro; Sanchez-Flores, A; Sanchez-Flores	Front Genet
25886267	Development of a multiplex-PCR probe system for the proper identification of Klebsiella variicola.	Klebsiella variicola was very recently described as a new bacterial species and is very closely related to Klebsiella pneumoniae; in fact, K. variicola isolates were first identified as K. pneumoniae. Therefore, it might be the case that some isolates, which were initially classified as K. pneumoniae, are actually K. variicola. The aim of this study was to devise a multiplex-PCR probe that can differentiate isolates from these sister species.	2015 Mar	Garza-Ramos, Ulises; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos; Silva-Sánchez, Jesús; Silva-Sánchez, J; Silva-Sánchez; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Tinoco, Perla; Tinoco, P; Tinoco; Pina-Gonzales, Marisol; Pina-Gonzales, M; Pina-Gonzales; Barrios, Humberto; Barrios, H; Barrios; Martínez-Barnetche, Jesús; Martínez-Barnetche, J; Martínez-Barnetche; Gómez-Barreto, Rosa Elena; Gómez-Barreto, RE; Gómez-Barreto; Tellez-Sosa, Juan; Tellez-Sosa, J; Tellez-Sosa	BMC Microbiol
26059339	Genome-wide identification of the Phaseolus vulgaris sRNAome using small RNA and degradome sequencing.	MiRNAs and phasiRNAs are negative regulators of gene expression. These small RNAs have been extensively studied in plant model species but only 10 mature microRNAs are present in miRBase version 21, the most used miRNA database, and no phasiRNAs have been identified for the model legume Phaseolus vulgaris. Thanks to the recent availability of the first version of the common bean genome, degradome data and small RNA libraries, we are able to present here a catalog of the microRNAs and phasiRNAs for this organism and, particularly, we suggest new protagonists in the symbiotic nodulation events.	2015 Jun	Formey, Damien; Formey, D; Formey; Iñiguez, Luis Pedro; Iñiguez, LP; Iñiguez; Peláez, Pablo; Peláez, P; Peláez; Li, Yong-Fang; Li, YF; Li; Sunkar, Ramanjulu; Sunkar, R; Sunkar; Sánchez, Federico; Sánchez, F; Sánchez; Reyes, José Luis; Reyes, JL; Reyes; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	BMC Genomics
26362866	Bradyrhizobium tropiciagri sp. nov. and Bradyrhizobium embrapense sp. nov., nitrogen-fixing symbionts of tropical forage legumes.	Biological nitrogen fixation is a key process for agricultural production and environmental sustainability, but there are comparatively few studies of symbionts of tropical pasture legumes, as well as few described species of the genus Bradyrhizobium, although it is the predominant rhizobial genus in the tropics. A detailed polyphasic study was conducted with two strains of the genus Bradyrhizobium used in commercial inoculants for tropical pastures in Brazil, CNPSo 1112T, isolated from perennial soybean (Neonotonia wightii), and CNPSo 2833T, from desmodium (Desmodium heterocarpon). Based on 16S-rRNA gene phylogeny, both strains were grouped in the Bradyrhizobium elkanii superclade, but were not clearly clustered with any known species. Multilocus sequence analysis of three (glnII, gyrB and recA) and five (plus atpD and dnaK) housekeeping genes confirmed that the strains are positioned in two distinct clades. Comparison with intergenic transcribed spacer sequences of type strains of described species of the genus Bradyrhizobium showed similarity lower than 93.1 %, and differences were confirmed by BOX-PCR analysis. Nucleotide identity of three housekeeping genes with type strains of described species ranged from 88.1 to 96.2 %. Average nucleotide identity of genome sequences showed values below the threshold for distinct species of the genus Bradyrhizobium ( < 90.6 %), and the value between the two strains was also below this threshold (91.2 %). Analysis of nifH and nodC gene sequences positioned the two strains in a clade distinct from other species of the genus Bradyrhizobium. Morphophysiological, genotypic and genomic data supported the description of two novel species in the genus Bradyrhizobium, Bradyrhizobium tropiciagri sp. nov. (type strain CNPSo 1112T = SMS 303T = BR 1009T = SEMIA 6148T = LMG 28867T) and Bradyrhizobium embrapense sp. nov. (type strain CNPSo 2833T = CIAT 2372T = BR 2212T = SEMIA 6208T = U674T = LMG 2987).	2015 Dec	Delamuta, Jakeline Renata Marçon; Delamuta, JRM; Delamuta; Ribeiro, Renan Augusto; Ribeiro, RA; Ribeiro; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Parma, Marcia Maria; Parma, MM; Parma; Melo, Itamar Soares; Melo, IS; Melo; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Hungria, Mariangela; Hungria, M; Hungria	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
26362781	Bradyrhizobium viridifuturi sp. nov., encompassing nitrogen-fixing symbionts of legumes used for green manure and environmental services.	Symbiotic nitrogen-fixing bacteria, commonly called rhizobia, are agronomically important because they can provide significant amounts of nitrogen to plants and help in recovery of impoverished soils and improvement of degraded environments. In recent years, with advances in molecular techniques, several studies have shown that these bacteria have high levels of genetic diversity, resulting in taxonomic reclassifications and descriptions of new species. However, despite the advances achieved, highly conserved 16S ribosomal genes (16S rRNA) do not elucidate differences between species of several genera, including the genus Bradyrhizobium. Other methodologies, such as multilocus sequence analysis (MLSA), have been used in such cases, with good results. In this study, three strains (SEMIAs 690T, 6387 and 6428) of the genus Bradyrhizobium, isolated from nitrogen-fixing nodules of Centrosema and Acacia species, without clear taxonomic positions, were studied. These strains differed from genetically closely related species according to the results of MLSA of four housekeeping genes (dnaK, glnII, gyrB and recA) and nucleotide identities of the concatenated genes with those of related species ranged from 87.8 % to 95.7 %, being highest with Bradyrhizobium elkanii. DNA-DNA hybridization (less than 32 % DNA relatedness) and average nucleotide identity values of the whole genomes (less than 90.5 %) indicated that these strains represented a novel species, and phenotypic traits were determined. Our data supported the description of the SEMIA strains as Bradyrhizobium viridifuturi sp. nov., and SEMIA 690T ( = CNPSo 991T = C 100aT = BR 1804T = LMG 28866T), isolated from Centrosema pubescens, was chosen as type strain.	2015 Dec	Ferraz Helene, Luisa Caroline; Ferraz Helene, LC; Ferraz Helene; Marçon Delamuta, Jakeline Renata; Marçon Delamuta, JR; Marçon Delamuta; Augusto Ribeiro, Renan; Augusto Ribeiro, R; Augusto Ribeiro; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Antonio Rogel, Marco; Antonio Rogel, M; Antonio Rogel; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Hungria, Mariangela; Hungria, M; Hungria	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
26627477	Deletion of the 2-acyl-glycerophosphoethanolamine cycle improve glucose metabolism in Escherichia coli strains employed for overproduction of aromatic compounds.	As a metabolic engineering tool, an adaptive laboratory evolution (ALE) experiment was performed to increase the specific growth rate (µ) in an Escherichia coli strain lacking PTS, originally engineered to increase the availability of intracellular phosphoenolpyruvate and redirect to the aromatic biosynthesis pathway. As result, several evolved strains increased their growth fitness on glucose as the only carbon source. Two of these clones isolated at 120 and 200 h during the experiment, increased their μ by 338 and 373 %, respectively, compared to the predecessor PB11 strain. The genome sequence and analysis of the genetic changes of these two strains (PB12 and PB13) allowed for the identification of a novel strategy to enhance carbon utilization to overcome the absence of the major glucose transport system.	2015 Dec	Aguilar, César; Aguilar, C; Aguilar; Flores, Noemí; Flores, N; Flores; Riveros-McKay, Fernando; Riveros-McKay, F; Riveros-McKay; Sahonero-Canavesi, Diana; Sahonero-Canavesi, D; Sahonero-Canavesi; Carmona, Susy Beatriz; Carmona, SB; Carmona; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Escalante, Adelfo; Escalante, A; Escalante; Bolívar, Francisco; Bolívar, F; Bolívar	Microb Cell Fact
26637982	TAF1 Variants Are Associated with Dysmorphic Features, Intellectual Disability, and Neurological Manifestations.	We describe an X-linked genetic syndrome associated with mutations in TAF1 and manifesting with global developmental delay, intellectual disability (ID), characteristic facial dysmorphology, generalized hypotonia, and variable neurologic features, all in male individuals. Simultaneous studies using diverse strategies led to the identification of nine families with overlapping clinical presentations and affected by de novo or maternally inherited single-nucleotide changes. Two additional families harboring large duplications involving TAF1 were also found to share phenotypic overlap with the probands harboring single-nucleotide changes, but they also demonstrated a severe neurodegeneration phenotype. Functional analysis with RNA-seq for one of the families suggested that the phenotype is associated with downregulation of a set of genes notably enriched with genes regulated by E-box proteins. In addition, knockdown and mutant studies of this gene in zebrafish have shown a quantifiable, albeit small, effect on a neuronal phenotype. Our results suggest that mutations in TAF1 play a critical role in the development of this X-linked ID syndrome. 	2015 Dec	O'Rawe, Jason A; O'Rawe, JA; O'Rawe; Wu, Yiyang; Wu, Y; Wu; Dörfel, Max J; Dörfel, MJ; Dörfel; Rope, Alan F; Rope, AF; Rope; Au, P Y Billie; Au, PY; Au; Parboosingh, Jillian S; Parboosingh, JS; Parboosingh; Moon, Sungjin; Moon, S; Moon; Kousi, Maria; Kousi, M; Kousi; Kosma, Konstantina; Kosma, K; Kosma; Smith, Christopher S; Smith, CS; Smith; Tzetis, Maria; Tzetis, M; Tzetis; Schuette, Jane L; Schuette, JL; Schuette; Hufnagel, Robert B; Hufnagel, RB; Hufnagel; Prada, Carlos E; Prada, CE; Prada; Martinez, Francisco; Martinez, F; Martinez; Orellana, Carmen; Orellana, C; Orellana; Crain, Jonathan; Crain, J; Crain; Caro-Llopis, Alfonso; Caro-Llopis, A; Caro-Llopis; Oltra, Silvestre; Oltra, S; Oltra; Monfort, Sandra; Monfort, S; Monfort; Jiménez-Barrón, Laura T; Jiménez-Barrón, LT; Jiménez-Barrón; Swensen, Jeffrey; Swensen, J; Swensen; Ellingwood, Sara; Ellingwood, S; Ellingwood; Smith, Rosemarie; Smith, R; Smith; Fang, Han; Fang, H; Fang; Ospina, Sandra; Ospina, S; Ospina; Stegmann, Sander; Stegmann, S; Stegmann; Den Hollander, Nicolette; Den Hollander, N; Den Hollander; Mittelman, David; Mittelman, D; Mittelman; Highnam, Gareth; Highnam, G; Highnam; Robison, Reid; Robison, R; Robison; Yang, Edward; Yang, E; Yang; Faivre, Laurence; Faivre, L; Faivre; Roubertie, Agathe; Roubertie, A; Roubertie; Rivière, Jean-Baptiste; Rivière, JB; Rivière; Monaghan, Kristin G; Monaghan, KG; Monaghan; Wang, Kai; Wang, K; Wang; Davis, Erica E; Davis, EE; Davis; Katsanis, Nicholas; Katsanis, N; Katsanis; Kalscheuer, Vera M; Kalscheuer, VM; Kalscheuer; Wang, Edith H; Wang, EH; Wang; Metcalfe, Kay; Metcalfe, K; Metcalfe; Kleefstra, Tjitske; Kleefstra, T; Kleefstra; Innes, A Micheil; Innes, AM; Innes; Kitsiou-Tzeli, Sophia; Kitsiou-Tzeli, S; Kitsiou-Tzeli; Rosello, Monica; Rosello, M; Rosello; Keegan, Catherine E; Keegan, CE; Keegan; Lyon, Gholson J; Lyon, GJ; Lyon	Am J Hum Genet
26706064	The novel elicitor AsES triggers a defense response against Botrytis cinerea in Arabidopsis thaliana.	AsES (Acremonium strictum Elicitor and Subtilisin) is a novel extracellular elicitor protein produced by the avirulent isolate SS71 of the opportunist strawberry fungal pathogen A. strictum. Here we describe the activity of AsES in the plant-pathogen system Arabidopsis thaliana-Botrytis cinerea. We show that AsES renders A. thaliana plants resistant to the necrotrophic pathogen B. cinerea, both locally and systemically and the defense response observed is dose-dependent. Systemic, but not local resistance is dependent on the length of exposure to AsES. The germination of the spores in vitro was not inhibited by AsES, implying that protection to B. cinerea is due to the induction of the plant defenses. These results were further supported by the findings that AsES differentially affects mutants impaired in the response to salicylic acid, jasmonic acid and ethylene, suggesting that AsES triggers the defense response through these three signaling pathways.	2015 Dec	Hael-Conrad, V; Hael-Conrad, V; Hael-Conrad; Abou-Mansour, E; Abou-Mansour, E; Abou-Mansour; Díaz-Ricci, J-C; Díaz-Ricci, JC; Díaz-Ricci; Métraux, J-P; Métraux, JP; Métraux; Serrano, M; Serrano, M; Serrano	Plant Sci
26615219	Genome Analysis of Structure-Function Relationships in Respiratory Complex I, an Ancient Bioenergetic Enzyme.	Respiratory complex I (NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase) is a ubiquitous bioenergetic enzyme formed by over 40 subunits in eukaryotes and a minimum of 11 subunits in bacteria. Recently, crystal structures have greatly advanced our knowledge of complex I but have not clarified the details of its reaction with ubiquinone (Q). This reaction is essential for bioenergy production and takes place in a large cavity embedded within a conserved module that is homologous to the catalytic core of Ni-Fe hydrogenases. However, how a hydrogenase core has evolved into the protonmotive Q reductase module of complex I has remained unclear. This work has exploited the abundant genomic information that is currently available to deduce structure-function relationships in complex I that indicate the evolutionary steps of Q reactivity and its adaptation to natural Q substrates. The results provide answers to fundamental questions regarding various aspects of complex I reaction with Q and help re-defining the old concept that this reaction may involve two Q or inhibitor sites. The re-definition leads to a simplified classification of the plethora of complex I inhibitors while throwing a new light on the evolution of the enzyme function. 	2015 Nov	Degli Esposti, Mauro; Degli Esposti, M; Degli Esposti	Genome Biol Evol
26564044	Complete Genome Sequence of a Human-Invasive Salmonella enterica Serovar Typhimurium Strain of the Emerging Sequence Type 213 Harboring a Multidrug Resistance IncA/C Plasmid and a blaCMY-2-Carrying IncF Plasmid.	Salmonella enterica subsp. enterica serovar Typhimurium strain 33676 was isolated in Mexico City, Mexico, from a patient with a systemic infection, and its complete genome sequence was determined using PacBio single-molecule real-time technology. Strain 33676 harbors an IncF plasmid carrying the extended-spectrum cephalosporin gene blaCMY-2 and a multidrug resistance IncA/C plasmid. 	2015 Nov	Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva; Calva, Edmundo; Calva, E; Calva; Calva, Juan J; Calva, JJ; Calva; Wiesner, Magdalena; Wiesner, M; Wiesner; Fernández-Mora, Marcos; Fernández-Mora, M; Fernández-Mora; Puente, José L; Puente, JL; Puente; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa	Genome Announc
26507799	Chlamydiaceae Genomics Reveals Interspecies Admixture and the Recent Evolution of Chlamydia abortus Infecting Lower Mammalian Species and Humans.	Chlamydiaceae are obligate intracellular bacteria that cause a diversity of severe infections among humans and livestock on a global scale. Identification of new species since 1989 and emergence of zoonotic infections, including abortion in women, underscore the need for genome sequencing of multiple strains of each species to advance our knowledge of evolutionary dynamics across Chlamydiaceae. Here, we genome sequenced isolates from avian, lower mammalian and human hosts. Based on core gene phylogeny, five isolates previously classified as Chlamydia abortus were identified as members of Chlamydia psittaci and Chlamydia pecorum. Chlamydia abortus is the most recently emerged species and is a highly monomorphic group that lacks the conserved virulence-associated plasmid. Low-level recombination and evidence for adaptation to the placenta echo evolutionary processes seen in recently emerged, highly virulent niche-restricted pathogens, such as Bacillus anthracis. In contrast, gene flow occurred within C. psittaci and other Chlamydiaceae species. The C. psittaci strain RTH, isolated from a red-tailed hawk (Buteo jamaicensis), is an outlying strain with admixture of C. abortus, C. psittaci, and its own population markers. An average nucleotide identity of less than 94% compared with other Chlamydiaceae species suggests that RTH belongs to a new species intermediary between C. psittaci and C. abortus. Hawks, as scavengers and predators, have extensive opportunities to acquire multiple species in their intestinal tract. This could facilitate transformation and homologous recombination with the potential for new species emergence. Our findings indicate that incubator hosts such as birds-of-prey likely promote Chlamydiaceae evolution resulting in novel pathogenic lineages. 	2015 Oct	Joseph, Sandeep J; Joseph, SJ; Joseph; Marti, Hanna; Marti, H; Marti; Didelot, Xavier; Didelot, X; Didelot; Castillo-Ramirez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramirez, S; Castillo-Ramirez; Read, Timothy D; Read, TD; Read; Dean, Deborah; Dean, D; Dean	Genome Biol Evol
26211831	Novel players in the AP2-miR172 regulatory network for common bean nodulation.	The intricate regulatory network for floral organogenesis in plants that includes AP2/ERF, SPL and AGL transcription factors, miR172 and miR156 along with other components is well documented, though its complexity and size keep increasing. The miR172/AP2 node was recently proposed as essential regulator in the legume-rhizobia nitrogen-fixing symbiosis. Research from our group contributed to demonstrate the control of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) nodulation by miR172c/AP2-1, however no other components of such regulatory network have been reported. Here we propose AGLs as new protagonists in the regulation of common bean nodulation and discuss the relevance of future deeper analysis of the complex AP2 regulatory network for nodule organogenesis in legumes.	2015	Íñiguez, Luis P; Íñiguez, LP; Íñiguez; Nova-Franco, Bárbara; Nova-Franco, B; Nova-Franco; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	Plant Signal Behav
24601835	Key roles of microsymbiont amino acid metabolism in rhizobia-legume interactions.	Rhizobia are bacteria in the α-proteobacterial genera Rhizobium, Sinorhizobium, Mesorhizobium, Azorhizobium and Bradyrhizobium that reduce (fix) atmospheric nitrogen in symbiotic association with a compatible host plant. In free-living and/or symbiotically associated rhizobia, amino acids may, in addition to their incorporation into proteins, serve as carbon, nitrogen or sulfur sources, signals of cellular nitrogen status and precursors of important metabolites. Depending on the rhizobia-host plant combination, microsymbiont amino acid metabolism (biosynthesis, transport and/or degradation) is often crucial to the establishment and maintenance of an effective nitrogen-fixing symbiosis and is intimately interconnected with the metabolism of the plant. This review summarizes past findings and current research directions in rhizobial amino acid metabolism and evaluates the genetic, biochemical and genome expression studies from which these are derived. Specific sections deal with the regulation of rhizobial amino acid metabolism, amino acid transport, and finally the symbiotic roles of individual amino acids in different plant-rhizobia combinations. 	2015	Dunn, Michael Frederick; Dunn, MF; Dunn	Crit Rev Microbiol
26272377	Development of molecular tools to monitor conjugative transfer in rhizobia.	Evolution of bacterial populations has been extensively driven by horizontal transfer events. Conjugative plasmid transfer is considered the principal contributor to gene exchange among bacteria. Several conjugative and mobilizable plasmids have been identified in rhizobia, and two major molecular mechanisms that regulate their transfer have been described, under laboratory conditions. The knowledge of rhizobial plasmid transfer regulation in natural environments is very poor. In this work we developed molecular tools to easily monitor the conjugative plasmid transfer in rhizobia by flow cytometry (FC) or microscopy. 24 cassettes were constructed by combining a variety of promotors, fluorescent proteins and antibiotic resistance genes, and used to tag plasmids and chromosome of donor strains. We were able to detect plasmid transfer after conversion of non-fluorescent recipients into fluorescent transconjugants. Flow cytometry (FC) was optimized to count donor, recipient and transconjugant strains to determine conjugative transfer frequencies. Results were similar, when determined either by FC or by viable counts. Our constructions also allowed the visualization of transconjugants in crosses performed on bean roots. The tools presented here may also be used for other purposes, such as analysis of transcriptional fusions or single-cell tagging. Application of the system will allow the survey of how different environmental conditions or other regulators modulate plasmid transfer in rhizobia. 	2015 Oct	Tejerizo, Gonzalo Torres; Tejerizo, GT; Tejerizo; Bañuelos, Luis Alfredo; Bañuelos, LA; Bañuelos; Cervantes, Laura; Cervantes, L; Cervantes; Gaytán, Paul; Gaytán, P; Gaytán; Pistorio, Mariano; Pistorio, M; Pistorio; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom	J Microbiol Methods
27148569	Genome-wide variant analysis of simplex autism families with an integrative clinical-bioinformatics pipeline.	Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are a group of developmental disabilities that affect social interaction and communication and are characterized by repetitive behaviors. There is now a large body of evidence that suggests a complex role of genetics in ASDs, in which many different loci are involved. Although many current population-scale genomic studies have been demonstrably fruitful, these studies generally focus on analyzing a limited part of the genome or use a limited set of bioinformatics tools. These limitations preclude the analysis of genome-wide perturbations that may contribute to the development and severity of ASD-related phenotypes. To overcome these limitations, we have developed and utilized an integrative clinical and bioinformatics pipeline for generating a more complete and reliable set of genomic variants for downstream analyses. Our study focuses on the analysis of three simplex autism families consisting of one affected child, unaffected parents, and one unaffected sibling. All members were clinically evaluated and widely phenotyped. Genotyping arrays and whole-genome sequencing were performed on each member, and the resulting sequencing data were analyzed using a variety of available bioinformatics tools. We searched for rare variants of putative functional impact that were found to be segregating according to de novo, autosomal recessive, X-linked, mitochondrial, and compound heterozygote transmission models. The resulting candidate variants included three small heterozygous copy-number variations (CNVs), a rare heterozygous de novo nonsense mutation in MYBBP1A located within exon 1, and a novel de novo missense variant in LAMB3. Our work demonstrates how more comprehensive analyses that include rich clinical data and whole-genome sequencing data can generate reliable results for use in downstream investigations. 	2015 Oct	Jiménez-Barrón, Laura T; Jiménez-Barrón, LT; Jiménez-Barrón; O'Rawe, Jason A; O'Rawe, JA; O'Rawe; Wu, Yiyang; Wu, Y; Wu; Yoon, Margaret; Yoon, M; Yoon; Fang, Han; Fang, H; Fang; Iossifov, Ivan; Iossifov, I; Iossifov; Lyon, Gholson J; Lyon, GJ; Lyon	Cold Spring Harb Mol Case Stud
26094112	The functional landscape bound to the transcription factors of Escherichia coli K-12.	Motivated by the experimental evidences accumulated in the last ten years and based on information deposited in RegulonDB, literature look up, and sequence analysis, we analyze the repertoire of 304 DNA-binding Transcription factors (TFs) in Escherichia coli K-12. These regulators were grouped in 78 evolutionary families and are regulating almost half of the total genes in this bacterium. In structural terms, 60% of TFs are composed by two-domains, 30% are monodomain, and 10% three- and four-structural domains. As previously noticed, the most abundant DNA-binding domain corresponds to the winged helix-turn-helix, with few alternative DNA-binding structures, resembling the hypothesis of successful protein structures with the emergence of new ones at low scales. In summary, we identified and described the characteristics associated to the DNA-binding TF in E. coli K-12. We also identified twelve functional modules based on a co-regulated gene matrix. Finally, diverse regulons were predicted based on direct associations between the TFs and potential regulated genes. This analysis should increase our knowledge about the gene regulation in the bacterium E. coli K-12, and provide more additional clues for comprehensive modelling of transcriptional regulatory networks in other bacteria. 	2015 Oct	Pérez-Rueda, Ernesto; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda; Tenorio-Salgado, Silvia; Tenorio-Salgado, S; Tenorio-Salgado; Huerta-Saquero, Alejandro; Huerta-Saquero, A; Huerta-Saquero; Balderas-Martínez, Yalbi I; Balderas-Martínez, YI; Balderas-Martínez; Moreno-Hagelsieb, Gabriel; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb	Comput Biol Chem
26403281	Metassembler: merging and optimizing de novo genome assemblies.	Genome assembly projects typically run multiple algorithms in an attempt to find the single best assembly, although those assemblies often have complementary, if untapped, strengths and weaknesses. We present our metassembler algorithm that merges multiple assemblies of a genome into a single superior sequence. We apply it to the four genomes from the Assemblathon competitions and show it consistently and substantially improves the contiguity and quality of each assembly. We also develop guidelines for meta-assembly by systematically evaluating 120 permutations of merging the top 5 assemblies of the first Assemblathon competition. The software is open-source at http://metassembler.sourceforge.net . 	2015 Sep	Wences, Alejandro Hernandez; Wences, AH; Wences; Schatz, Michael C; Schatz, MC; Schatz	Genome Biol
26358599	Draft Genome Sequences of Klebsiella variicola Plant Isolates.	Three endophytic Klebsiella variicola isolates-T29A, 3, and 6A2, obtained from sugar cane stem, maize shoots, and banana leaves, respectively-were used for whole-genome sequencing. Here, we report the draft genome sequences of circular chromosomes and plasmids. The genomes contain plant colonization and cellulases genes. This study will help toward understanding the genomic basis of K. variicola interaction with plant hosts. 	2015 Sep	Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Silva-Sanchez, Jesús; Silva-Sanchez, J; Silva-Sanchez; Barrios, Humberto; Barrios, H; Barrios; Rodríguez-Medina, Nadia; Rodríguez-Medina, N; Rodríguez-Medina; Martínez-Barnetche, Jesús; Martínez-Barnetche, J; Martínez-Barnetche; Téllez-Sosa, Juan; Téllez-Sosa, J; Téllez-Sosa; Gómez-Barreto, Rosa Elena; Gómez-Barreto, RE; Gómez-Barreto; Garza-Ramos, Ulises; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos	Genome Announc
25862689	Bacterial membrane lipids: diversity in structures and pathways.	For many decades, Escherichia coli was the main model organism for the study of bacterial membrane lipids. The results obtained served as a blueprint for membrane lipid biochemistry, but it is clear now that there is no such thing as a typical bacterial membrane lipid composition. Different bacterial species display different membrane compositions and even the membrane composition of cells belonging to a single species is not constant, but depends on the environmental conditions to which the cells are exposed. Bacterial membranes present a large diversity of amphiphilic lipids, including the common phospholipids phosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylethanolamine and cardiolipin, the less frequent phospholipids phosphatidylcholine, and phosphatidylinositol and a variety of other membrane lipids, such as for example ornithine lipids, glycolipids, sphingolipids or hopanoids among others. In this review, we give an overview about the membrane lipid structures known in bacteria, the different metabolic pathways involved in their formation, and the distribution of membrane lipids and metabolic pathways across taxonomical groups. 	2016 Jan	Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	FEMS Microbiol Rev
25711932	Fatty acid-releasing activities in Sinorhizobium meliloti include unusual diacylglycerol lipase.	Phospholipids are well known for their membrane-forming properties and thereby delimit any cell from the exterior world. In addition, membrane phospholipids can act as precursors for signals and other biomolecules during their turnover. Little is known about phospholipid signalling, turnover and remodelling in bacteria. Recently, we showed that a FadD-deficient mutant of Sinorhizobium meliloti, unable to convert free fatty acids to their coenzyme A derivatives, accumulates free fatty acids during the stationary phase of growth. Enzymatic activities responsible for the generation of these free fatty acids were unknown in rhizobia. Searching the genome of S. meliloti, we identified a potential lysophospholipase (SMc04041) and two predicted patatin-like phospholipases A (SMc00930, SMc01003). Although SMc00930 as well as SMc01003 contribute to the release of free fatty acids in S. meliloti, neither one can use phospholipids as substrates. Here we show that SMc01003 converts diacylglycerol to monoacylglycerol and a fatty acid, and that monoacylglycerol can be further degraded by SMc01003 to another fatty acid and glycerol. A SMc01003-deficient mutant of S. meliloti transiently accumulates diacylglycerol, suggesting that SMc01003 also acts as diacylglycerol lipase (DglA) in its native background. Expression of the DglA lipase in Escherichia coli causes lysis of cells in stationary phase of growth.	2015 Sep	Sahonero-Canavesi, Diana X; Sahonero-Canavesi, DX; Sahonero-Canavesi; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Sandoval-Calderón, Mario; Sandoval-Calderón, M; Sandoval-Calderón; Lamsa, Anne; Lamsa, A; Lamsa; Pogliano, Kit; Pogliano, K; Pogliano; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	Environ Microbiol
26484261	Microarray analysis of Neosartorya fischeri using different carbon sources, petroleum asphaltenes and glucose-peptone.	Asphaltenes are considered as the most recalcitrant petroleum fraction and represent a big problem for the recovery, separation and processing of heavy oils and bitumens. Neosartorya fischeri is a saprophytic fungus that is able to grow using asphaltenes as the sole carbon source [1]. We performed transcription profiling using a custom designed microarray with the complete genome from N. fischeri NRRL 181 in order to identify genes related to the transformation of asphaltenes [1]. Data analysis was performed using the genArise software. Results showed that 287 genes were up-regulated and 118 were down-regulated. Here we describe experimental procedures and methods about our dataset (NCBI GEO accession number GSE68146) and describe the data analysis to identify different expression levels in N. fischeri using this recalcitrant carbon source. 	2015 Sep	Hernández-López, Edna L; Hernández-López, EL; Hernández-López; Ramírez-Puebla, Shamayim T; Ramírez-Puebla, ST; Ramírez-Puebla; Vazquez-Duhalt, Rafael; Vazquez-Duhalt, R; Vazquez-Duhalt	Genom Data
26297041	Rhizobium ecuadorense sp. nov., an indigenous N2-fixing symbiont of the Ecuadorian common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) genetic pool.	There are two major centres of genetic diversification of common bean (Phaseolus vilgaris L.), the Mesoamerican and the Andean, and the legume is capable of establishing nitrogen-fixing symbioses with several rhizobia; Rhizobium etli seems to be the dominant species in both centres. Another genetic pool of common bean, in Peru and Ecuador, is receiving increasing attention, and studies of microsymbionts from the region can help to increase our knowledge about coevolution of this symbiosis. We have previously reported several putative new lineages from this region and here present data indicating that strains belonging to one of them, PEL4, represent a novel species. Based on 16S rRNA gene sequence phylogeny, PEL4 strains are positioned in the Rhizobium phaseoli/R. etli/Rhizobium leguminosarum clade, but show unique properties in several morphological, physiological and biochemical analyses, as well as in BOX-PCR profiles ( < 75% similarity with related species). PEL4 strains also differed from related species based on multilocus sequence analysis of three housekeeping genes (glnII, gyrB and recA). Nucleotide identities of the three concatenated genes between PEL4 strains and related species ranged from 91.8 to 94.2%, being highest with Rhizobium fabae. DNA-DNA hybridization ( < 47% DNA relatedness) and average nucleotide identity values of the whole genomes ( < 90.2%) also supported the novel species status. The PEL4 strains were effective in nodulating and fixing N2 with common beans. The data supported the view that PEL4 strains represent a novel species, Rhizobium ecuadorense sp. nov. The type strain is CNPSo 671(T) ( = UMR 1450(T) = PIMAMPIRS I 5(T) = LMG 27578(T)).	2015 Sep	Ribeiro, Renan Augusto; Ribeiro, RA; Ribeiro; Martins, Talita Busulini; Martins, TB; Martins; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Marçon Delamuta, Jakeline Renata; Marçon Delamuta, JR; Marçon Delamuta; Rogel, Marco Antonio; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Hungria, Mariangela; Hungria, M; Hungria	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
26189661	Species in Wolbachia? Proposal for the designation of 'Candidatus Wolbachia bourtzisii', 'Candidatus Wolbachia onchocercicola', 'Candidatus Wolbachia blaxteri', 'Candidatus Wolbachia brugii', 'Candidatus Wolbachia taylori', 'Candidatus Wolbachia collembolicola' and 'Candidatus Wolbachia multihospitum' for the different species within Wolbachia supergroups.	Wolbachia are highly extended bacterial endosymbionts that infect arthropods and filarial nematodes and produce contrasting phenotypes on their hosts. Wolbachia taxonomy has been understudied. Currently, Wolbachia strains are classified into phylogenetic supergroups. Here we applied phylogenomic analyses to study Wolbachia evolutionary relationships and examined metrics derived from their genome sequences such as average nucleotide identity (ANI), in silico DNA-DNA hybridization (DDH), G+C content, and synteny to shed light on the taxonomy of these bacteria. Draft genome sequences of strains wDacA and wDacB obtained from the carmine cochineal insect Dactylopius coccus were included. Although all analyses indicated that each Wolbachia supergroup represents a distinct evolutionary lineage, we found that some of the analyzed supergroups showed enough internal heterogeneity to be considered as assemblages of more than one species. Thus, supergroups would represent supraspecific groupings. Consequently, Wolbachia pipientis nomen species would apply only to strains of supergroup B and we propose the designation of 'Candidatus Wolbachia bourtzisii', 'Candidatus Wolbachia onchocercicola', 'Candidatus Wolbachia blaxterii', 'Candidatus Wolbachia brugii', 'Candidatus Wolbachia taylorii', 'Candidatus Wolbachia collembolicola' and 'Candidatus Wolbachia multihospitis' for other supergroups. 	2015 Sep	Ramírez-Puebla, Shamayim T; Ramírez-Puebla, ST; Ramírez-Puebla; Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis E; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Vera-Ponce de León, Arturo; Vera-Ponce de León, A; Vera-Ponce de León; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Delaye, Luis; Delaye, L; Delaye; Martínez, Julio; Martínez, J; Martínez; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
26271664	Genetic and biochemical characterization of arginine biosynthesis in Sinorhizobium meliloti 1021.	L-Ornithine production in the alfalfa microsymbiont Sinorhizobium meliloti occurs as an intermediate step in arginine biosynthesis. Ornithine is required for effective symbiosis but its synthesis in S. meliloti has been little studied. Unlike most bacteria, S. meliloti 1021 is annotated as encoding two enzymes producing ornithine: N-acetylornithine (NAO) deacetylase (ArgE) hydrolyses NAO to acetate and ornithine, and glutamate N-acetyltransferase (ArgJ) transacetylates l-glutamate with the acetyl group from NAO, forming ornithine and N-acetylglutamate (NAG). NAG is the substrate for the second step of arginine biosynthesis catalysed by NAG kinase (ArgB). Inactivation of argB in strain 1021 resulted in arginine auxotrophy. The activity of purified ArgB was significantly inhibited by arginine but not by ornithine. The purified ArgJ was highly active in NAO deacetylation/glutamate transacetylation and was significantly inhibited by ornithine but not by arginine. The purified ArgE protein (with a 6His-Sumo affinity tag) was also active in deacetylating NAO. argE and argJ single mutants, and an argEJ double mutant, are arginine prototrophs. Extracts of the double mutant contained aminoacylase (Ama) activity that deacetylated NAO to form ornithine. The purified products of three candidate ama genes (smc00682 (hipO1), smc02256 (hipO2) and smb21279) all possessed NAO deacetylase activity. hipO1 and hipO2, but not smb21279, expressed in trans functionally complemented an Escherichia coli ΔargE : : Km mutant. We conclude that Ama activity accounts for the arginine prototrophy of the argEJ mutant. Transcriptional assays of argB, argE and argJ, fused to a promoterless gusA gene, showed that their expression was not significantly affected by exogenous arginine or ornithine.	2015 Aug	Hernández, Victor M; Hernández, VM; Hernández; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Hernández-Lucas, Ismael; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Vázquez, Alejandra; Vázquez, A; Vázquez; Ortíz-Ortíz, Catalina; Ortíz-Ortíz, C; Ortíz-Ortíz; Díaz, Rafael; Díaz, R; Díaz; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn	Microbiology (Reading)
26284103	Responses of symbiotic nitrogen-fixing common bean to aluminum toxicity and delineation of nodule responsive microRNAs.	Aluminum (Al) toxicity is widespread in acidic soils where the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris), the most important legume for human consumption, is produced and it is a limiting factor for crop production and symbiotic nitrogen fixation. We characterized the nodule responses of common bean plants inoculated with Rhizobioum tropici CIAT899 and the root responses of nitrate-fertilized plants exposed to excess Al in low pH, for long or short periods. A 43-50% reduction in nitrogenase activity indicates that Al toxicity (Alt) highly affected nitrogen fixation in common bean. Bean roots and nodules showed characteristic symptoms for Alt. In mature nodules Al accumulation and lipoperoxidation were observed in the infected zone, while callose deposition and cell death occurred mainly in the nodule cortex. Regulatory mechanisms of plant responses to metal toxicity involve microRNAs (miRNAs) along other regulators. Using a miRNA-macroarray hybridization approach we identified 28 (14 up-regulated) Alt nodule-responsive miRNAs. We validated (quantitative reverse transcriptase-PCR) the expression of eight nodule responsive miRNAs in roots and in nodules exposed to high Al for long or short periods. The inverse correlation between the target and miRNA expression ratio (stress:control) was observed in every case. Generally, miRNAs showed a higher earlier response in roots than in nodules. Some of the common bean Alt-responsive miRNAs identified has also been reported as differentially expressed in other plant species subjected to similar stress condition. miRNA/target nodes analyzed in this work are known to be involved in relevant signaling pathways, thus we propose that the participation of miR164/NAC1 (NAM/ATAF/CUC transcription factor) and miR393/TIR1 (TRANSPORT INHIBITOR RESPONSE 1-like protein) in auxin and of miR170/SCL (SCARECROW-like protein transcription factor) in gibberellin signaling is relevant for common bean response/adaptation to Al stress. Our data provide a foundation for evaluating the individual roles of miRNAs in the response of common bean nodules to Alt. 	2015	Mendoza-Soto, Ana B; Mendoza-Soto, AB; Mendoza-Soto; Naya, Loreto; Naya, L; Naya; Leija, Alfonso; Leija, A; Leija; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	Front Plant Sci
26316636	Complete Genome Sequence of Paenibacillus larvae MEX14, Isolated from Honey Bee Larvae from the Xochimilco Quarter in Mexico City.	Paenibacillus larvae strain MEX14 is a facultative anaerobic endospore-forming bacterium that infects Apis mellifera larvae. Strain MEX14 was isolated from domestic bee larvae collected in a backyard in Mexico City. The estimated genome size was determined to be 4.18 Mb, and it harbors 4,806 protein coding genes (CDSs). 	2015 Aug	Peréz de la Rosa, D; Peréz de la Rosa, D; Peréz de la Rosa; Pérez de la Rosa, J J; Pérez de la Rosa, JJ; Pérez de la Rosa; Cossio-Bayugar, R; Cossio-Bayugar, R; Cossio-Bayugar; Miranda-Miranda, E; Miranda-Miranda, E; Miranda-Miranda; Lozano, L; Lozano, L; Lozano; Bravo-Díaz, M A; Bravo-Díaz, MA; Bravo-Díaz; Rocha-Martínez, M K; Rocha-Martínez, MK; Rocha-Martínez; Sachman-Ruiz, B; Sachman-Ruiz, B; Sachman-Ruiz	Genome Announc
26089426	Complete Genome Sequencing of a Multidrug-Resistant and Human-Invasive Salmonella enterica Serovar Typhimurium Strain of the Emerging Sequence Type 213 Genotype.	Salmonella enterica subsp. enterica serovar Typhimurium strain YU39 was isolated in 2005 in the state of Yucatán, Mexico, from a human systemic infection. The YU39 strain is representative of the multidrug-resistant emergent sequence type 213 (ST213) genotype. The YU39 complete genome is composed of a chromosome and seven plasmids. 	2015 Jun	Calva, Edmundo; Calva, E; Calva; Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva; Zaidi, Mussaret B; Zaidi, MB; Zaidi; Sanchez-Flores, Alejandro; Sanchez-Flores, A; Sanchez-Flores; Estrada, Karel; Estrada, K; Estrada; Silva, Genivaldo G Z; Silva, GG; Silva; Soto-Jiménez, Luz M; Soto-Jiménez, LM; Soto-Jiménez; Wiesner, Magdalena; Wiesner, M; Wiesner; Fernández-Mora, Marcos; Fernández-Mora, M; Fernández-Mora; Edwards, Robert A; Edwards, RA; Edwards; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa	Genome Announc
25925947	OlsG (Sinac_1600) Is an Ornithine Lipid N-Methyltransferase from the Planctomycete Singulisphaera acidiphila.	Ornithine lipids (OLs) are phosphorus-free membrane lipids widespread in bacteria but absent from archaea and eukaryotes. In addition to the unmodified OLs, a variety of OL derivatives hydroxylated in different structural positions has been reported. Recently, methylated derivatives of OLs were described in several planctomycetes isolated from a peat bog in Northern Russia, although the gene/enzyme responsible for the N-methylation of OL remained obscure. Here we identify and characterize the OL N-methyltransferase OlsG (Sinac_1600) from the planctomycete Singulisphaera acidiphila. When OlsG is co-expressed with the OL synthase OlsF in Escherichia coli, methylated OL derivatives are formed. An in vitro characterization shows that OlsG is responsible for the 3-fold methylation of the terminal δ-nitrogen of OL. Methylation is dependent on the presence of the detergent Triton X-100 and the methyldonor S-adenosylmethionine. 	2015 Jun	Escobedo-Hinojosa, Wendy Itzel; Escobedo-Hinojosa, WI; Escobedo-Hinojosa; Vences-Guzmán, Miguel Ángel; Vences-Guzmán, MÁ; Vences-Guzmán; Schubotz, Florence; Schubotz, F; Schubotz; Sandoval-Calderón, Mario; Sandoval-Calderón, M; Sandoval-Calderón; Summons, Roger E; Summons, RE; Summons; López-Lara, Isabel María; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	J Biol Chem
25660942	Taxonomy of rhizobia and agrobacteria from the Rhizobiaceae family in light of genomics.	Phylogenomic analyses showed two major superclades within the family Rhizobiaceae that corresponded to the Rhizobium/Agrobacterium and Shinella/Ensifer groups. Within the Rhizobium/Agrobacterium group, four highly supported clades were evident that could correspond to distinct genera. The Shinella/Ensifer group encompassed not only the genera Shinella and Ensifer but also a separate clade containing the type strain of Rhizobium giardinii. Ensifer adhaerens (Casida A(T)) was an outlier within its group, separated from the rest of the Ensifer strains. The phylogenomic analysis presented provided support for the revival of Allorhizobium as a bona fide genus within the Rhizobiaceae, the distinctiveness of Agrobacterium and the recently proposed Neorhizobium genus, and suggested that R. giardinii may be transferred to a novel genus. Genomics has provided data for defining bacterial-species limits from estimates of average nucleotide identity (ANI) and in silico DNA-DNA hybridization (DDH). ANI reference values are becoming the gold standard in rhizobial taxonomy and are being used to recognize novel rhizobial lineages and species that seem to be biologically coherent, as shown in this study. 	2015 Jun	Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis E; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora; Martínez-Romero, Julio; Martínez-Romero, J; Martínez-Romero; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
26111345	Calcitriol increases Dicer expression and modifies the microRNAs signature in SiHa cervical cancer cells.	MicroRNAs play important roles in cancer biology. Calcitriol, the hormonal form of vitamin D3, regulates microRNAs expression in tumor cells. In the present study we asked if calcitriol would modify some of the components of the microRNA processing machinery, namely, Drosha and Dicer, in calcitriol-responsive cervical cancer cells. We found that calcitriol treatment did not affect Drosha mRNA; however, it significantly increased Dicer mRNA and protein expression in VDR-positive SiHa and HeLa cells. In VDR-negative C33-A cells, calcitriol had no effect on Dicer mRNA. We also found a vitamin D response element in Dicer promoter that interacts in vitro to vitamin D and retinoid X receptors. To explore the biological plausibility of these results, we asked if calcitriol alters the microRNA expression profile in SiHa cells. Our results revealed that calcitriol regulates the expression of a subset of microRNAs with potential regulatory functions in cancer pathways, such as miR-22, miR-296-3p, and miR-498, which exert tumor-suppressive effects. In summary, the data indicate that in SiHa cells, calcitriol stimulates the expression of Dicer possibly through the vitamin D response element located in its promoter. This may explain the calcitriol-dependent modulation of microRNAs whose target mRNAs are related to anticancer pathways, further adding to the various anticancer mechanisms of calcitriol. 	2015 Aug	González-Duarte, Ramiro José; González-Duarte, RJ; González-Duarte; Cázares-Ordoñez, Verna; Cázares-Ordoñez, V; Cázares-Ordoñez; Romero-Córdoba, Sandra; Romero-Córdoba, S; Romero-Córdoba; Díaz, Lorenza; Díaz, L; Díaz; Ortíz, Víctor; Ortíz, V; Ortíz; Freyre-González, Julio Augusto; Freyre-González, JA; Freyre-González; Hidalgo-Miranda, Alfredo; Hidalgo-Miranda, A; Hidalgo-Miranda; Larrea, Fernando; Larrea, F; Larrea; Avila, Euclides; Avila, E; Avila	Biochem Cell Biol
25040623	Discovery of a bifunctional acyltransferase responsible for ornithine lipid synthesis in Serratia proteamaculans.	Ornithine lipids (OLs) are phosphorus-free membrane lipids that can be formed by many bacteria but that are absent from archaea and eukaryotes. A function for OLs in stress conditions and in host-bacteria interactions has been shown in some bacteria. Some bacterial species have been described that can form OLs, but lack the known genes (olsBA) involved in its biosynthesis, which implied the existence of a second pathway. Here we describe the bifunctional protein OlsF from Serratia proteamaculans involved in OL formation. Expression of OlsF and its homologue from Flavobacterium johnsoniae in Escherichia coli causes OL formation. Deletion of OlsF in S. proteamaculans caused the absence of OL formation. Homologues of OlsF are widely distributed among γ-, δ- and ε-Proteobacteria and in the Cytophaga-Flavobacterium-Bacteroidetes group of bacteria, including several well-studied pathogens for which the presence of OLs has not been suspected, such as for example Vibrio cholerae and Klebsiella pneumonia. Using genomic data, we predict that about 50% of bacterial species can form OLs.	2015 May	Vences-Guzmán, Miguel Ángel; Vences-Guzmán, MÁ; Vences-Guzmán; Guan, Ziqiang; Guan, Z; Guan; Escobedo-Hinojosa, Wendy Itzel; Escobedo-Hinojosa, WI; Escobedo-Hinojosa; Bermúdez-Barrientos, José Roberto; Bermúdez-Barrientos, JR; Bermúdez-Barrientos; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	Environ Microbiol
25739700	The micro-RNA72c-APETALA2-1 node as a key regulator of the common bean-Rhizobium etli nitrogen fixation symbiosis.	Micro-RNAs are recognized as important posttranscriptional regulators in plants. The relevance of micro-RNAs as regulators of the legume-rhizobia nitrogen-fixing symbiosis is emerging. The objective of this work was to functionally characterize the role of micro-RNA172 (miR172) and its conserved target APETALA2 (AP2) transcription factor in the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris)-Rhizobium etli symbiosis. Our expression analysis revealed that mature miR172c increased upon rhizobial infection and continued increasing during nodule development, reaching its maximum in mature nodules and decaying in senescent nodules. The expression of AP2-1 target showed a negative correlation with miR172c expression. A drastic decrease in miR172c and high AP2-1 mRNA levels were observed in ineffective nodules. Phenotypic analysis of composite bean plants with transgenic roots overexpressing miR172c or a mutated AP2-1 insensitive to miR172c cleavage demonstrated the pivotal regulatory role of the miR172 node in the common bean-rhizobia symbiosis. Increased miR172 resulted in improved root growth, increased rhizobial infection, increased expression of early nodulation and autoregulation of nodulation genes, and improved nodulation and nitrogen fixation. In addition, these plants showed decreased sensitivity to nitrate inhibition of nodulation. Through transcriptome analysis, we identified 114 common bean genes that coexpressed with AP2-1 and proposed these as being targets for transcriptional activation by AP2-1. Several of these genes are related to nodule senescence, and we propose that they have to be silenced, through miR172c-induced AP2-1 cleavage, in active mature nodules. Our work sets the basis for exploring the miR172-mediated improvement of symbiotic nitrogen fixation in common bean, the most important grain legume for human consumption.	2015 May	Nova-Franco, Bárbara; Nova-Franco, B; Nova-Franco; Íñiguez, Luis P; Íñiguez, LP; Íñiguez; Valdés-López, Oswaldo; Valdés-López, O; Valdés-López; Alvarado-Affantranger, Xochitl; Alvarado-Affantranger, X; Alvarado-Affantranger; Leija, Alfonso; Leija, A; Leija; Fuentes, Sara I; Fuentes, SI; Fuentes; Ramírez, Mario; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Paul, Sujay; Paul, S; Paul; Reyes, José L; Reyes, JL; Reyes; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	Plant Physiol
25853342	Using a sequential regimen to eliminate bacteria at sublethal antibiotic dosages.	We need to find ways of enhancing the potency of existing antibiotics, and, with this in mind, we begin with an unusual question: how low can antibiotic dosages be and yet bacterial clearance still be observed? Seeking to optimise the simultaneous use of two antibiotics, we use the minimal dose at which clearance is observed in an in vitro experimental model of antibiotic treatment as a criterion to distinguish the best and worst treatments of a bacterium, Escherichia coli. Our aim is to compare a combination treatment consisting of two synergistic antibiotics to so-called sequential treatments in which the choice of antibiotic to administer can change with each round of treatment. Using mathematical predictions validated by the E. coli treatment model, we show that clearance of the bacterium can be achieved using sequential treatments at antibiotic dosages so low that the equivalent two-drug combination treatments are ineffective. Seeking to treat the bacterium in testing circumstances, we purposefully study an E. coli strain that has a multidrug pump encoded in its chromosome that effluxes both antibiotics. Genomic amplifications that increase the number of pumps expressed per cell can cause the failure of high-dose combination treatments, yet, as we show, sequentially treated populations can still collapse. However, dual resistance due to the pump means that the antibiotics must be carefully deployed and not all sublethal sequential treatments succeed. A screen of 136 96-h-long sequential treatments determined five of these that could clear the bacterium at sublethal dosages in all replicate populations, even though none had done so by 24 h. These successes can be attributed to a collateral sensitivity whereby cross-resistance due to the duplicated pump proves insufficient to stop a reduction in E. coli growth rate following drug exchanges, a reduction that proves large enough for appropriately chosen drug switches to clear the bacterium. 	2015 Apr	Fuentes-Hernandez, Ayari; Fuentes-Hernandez, A; Fuentes-Hernandez; Plucain, Jessica; Plucain, J; Plucain; Gori, Fabio; Gori, F; Gori; Pena-Miller, Rafael; Pena-Miller, R; Pena-Miller; Reding, Carlos; Reding, C; Reding; Jansen, Gunther; Jansen, G; Jansen; Schulenburg, Hinrich; Schulenburg, H; Schulenburg; Gudelj, Ivana; Gudelj, I; Gudelj; Beardmore, Robert; Beardmore, R; Beardmore	PLoS Biol
25683745	Mathematical modeling of the apo and holo transcriptional regulation in Escherichia coli.	Transcription factors (TFs) modulate gene expression as a consequence of internal or exogenous changes in cell signaling. TFs can bind to DNA either with their effector bound (holo conformation), or as free proteins (apo conformation). With the aim of contributing to the understanding of the evolutionary fitness and organizational principles behind the different TF conformations, we inquire into the origins of these conformational differences by analyzing these two TF conformations from the perspective of Savageau's demand theory. For the control of a gene whose function is in high demand, we found that evolutionary constraints are responsible for activator TFs binding to DNA mainly in holo conformation whereas apo activation is under-represented. The mathematically controlled comparison of the apo and holo conformations reveals formal and evolutionary arguments in favor of this TF control asymmetry, which suggests that evolution favors holo activation under environmental conditions commonly found by E. coli in the human digestive tract. Specifically, the sensibility analysis performed for the holo conformation, in the positive mode of regulation, shows that the wild-type is more robust for situations where realizable changes in the model's parameters favored a better performance under non-stressful environmental conditions commonly found by E. coli in the human digestive tract. By contrast, the positive apo conformation is better adapted to adverse situations. On the other hand, the sensibility analysis performed for the negative mode of regulation showing none of the TF active conformations presents an advantage. 	2015 Apr	Alvarez-Vasquez, Fernando J; Alvarez-Vasquez, FJ; Alvarez-Vasquez; Freyre-González, Julio A; Freyre-González, JA; Freyre-González; Balderas-Martínez, Yalbi I; Balderas-Martínez, YI; Balderas-Martínez; Delgado-Carrillo, Mónica I; Delgado-Carrillo, MI; Delgado-Carrillo; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Mol Biosyst
25744996	Burkholderia cenocepacia Strain CEIB S5-1, a Rhizosphere-Inhabiting Bacterium with Potential in Bioremediation.	Burkholderia cenocepacia is considered an opportunistic pathogen from humans and may cause disease in plants. A bioprospection from a plaguicide-contaminated agricultural field in Mexico identified several methyl parathion-degrading bacteria. Here, we report the draft genome sequence of B. cenocepacia strain CEIB S5-1, which gave us clues into ecological biodiversity. 	2015 Mar	Martínez-Ocampo, Fernando; Martínez-Ocampo, F; Martínez-Ocampo; Lozano-Aguirre Beltrán, Luis Fernando; Lozano-Aguirre Beltrán, LF; Lozano-Aguirre Beltrán; Hernández-Mendoza, Armando; Hernández-Mendoza, A; Hernández-Mendoza; Rojas-Espinoza, Luis Enrique; Rojas-Espinoza, LE; Rojas-Espinoza; Popoca-Ursino, Elida Carolina; Popoca-Ursino, EC; Popoca-Ursino; Ortiz-Hernández, María Laura; Ortiz-Hernández, ML; Ortiz-Hernández; Sánchez-Salinas, Enrique; Sánchez-Salinas, E; Sánchez-Salinas; Ramos Quintana, Fernando; Ramos Quintana, F; Ramos Quintana; Dantán-González, Edgar; Dantán-González, E; Dantán-González	Genome Announc
25780762	Population structure of Neisseria gonorrhoeae based on whole genome data and its relationship with antibiotic resistance.	Neisseria gonorrhoeae is the causative agent of gonorrhea, a sexually transmitted infection (STI) of major importance. As a result of antibiotic resistance, there are now limited options for treating patients. We collected draft genome sequence data and associated metadata data on 76 N. gonorrhoeae strains from around the globe and searched for known determinants of antibiotics resistance within the strains. The population structure and evolutionary forces within the pathogen population were analyzed. Our results indicated a cosmopolitan gonoccocal population mainly made up of five subgroups. The estimated ratio of recombination to mutation (r/m = 2.2) from our data set indicates an appreciable level of recombination occurring in the population. Strains with resistance phenotypes to more recent antibiotics (azithromycin and cefixime) were mostly found in two of the five population subgroups. 	2015	Ezewudo, Matthew N; Ezewudo, MN; Ezewudo; Joseph, Sandeep J; Joseph, SJ; Joseph; Castillo-Ramirez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramirez, S; Castillo-Ramirez; Dean, Deborah; Dean, D; Dean; Del Rio, Carlos; Del Rio, C; Del Rio; Didelot, Xavier; Didelot, X; Didelot; Dillon, Jo-Anne; Dillon, JA; Dillon; Selden, Richard F; Selden, RF; Selden; Shafer, William M; Shafer, WM; Shafer; Turingan, Rosemary S; Turingan, RS; Turingan; Unemo, Magnus; Unemo, M; Unemo; Read, Timothy D; Read, TD; Read	PeerJ
25688108	Molecular evolution of cytochrome bd oxidases across proteobacterial genomes.	This work is aimed to resolve the complex molecular evolution of cytochrome bd ubiquinol oxidase, a nearly ubiquitous bacterial enzyme that is involved in redox balance and bioenergetics. Previous studies have created an unclear picture of bd oxidases phylogenesis without considering the existence of diverse types of bd oxidases. Integrated approaches of genomic and protein analysis focused on proteobacteria have generated a molecular classification of diverse types of bd oxidases, which produces a new scenario for interpreting their evolution. A duplication of the original gene cluster of bd oxidase might have occurred in the ancestors of extant α-proteobacteria of the Rhodospirillales order, such as Acidocella, from which the bd-I type of the oxidase might have diffused to other proteobacterial lineages. In contrast, the Cyanide-Insensitive Oxidase type may have differentiated into recognizable subtypes after another gene cluster duplication. These subtypes are widespread in the genomes of α-, β-, and γ-proteobacteria, with occasional instances of lateral gene transfer. In resolving the evolutionary pattern of proteobacterial bd oxidases, this work sheds new light on the basal taxa of α-proteobacteria from which the γ-proteobacterial lineage probably emerged. 	2015 Feb	Degli Esposti, Mauro; Degli Esposti, M; Degli Esposti; Rosas-Pérez, Tania; Rosas-Pérez, T; Rosas-Pérez; Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis Eduardo; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Bolaños, Luis Manuel; Bolaños, LM; Bolaños; Rosenblueth, Monica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Genome Biol Evol
25644116	Mutations in an antisense RNA, involved in the replication control of a repABC plasmid, that disrupt plasmid incompatibility and mediate plasmid speciation.	The maintenance of large plasmid in a wide variety of alpha-proteobacteria depends on the repABC replication/segregation unit. The intergenic repB-repC region of these plasmids encodes a countertranscribed RNA (ctRNA) that modulates the transcription/translation rate of RepC, the initiator protein. The ctRNA acts as a strong incompatibility factor when expressed in trans. We followed a site directed mutagenesis approach to map those sequences of the ctRNA that are required for plasmid incompatibility and for plasmid replication control. We found that the first three nucleotides of the 5'-end of the ctRNA are essential for interactions with its target RNA. We also found that stretches of 4-5 nucleotides of non-complementarity within the first 10 nucleotides of the left arm of the ctRNA and the target RNA are sufficient to avoid plasmid incompatibility. Additionally, miniplasmid derivatives expressing ctRNAs with mutations in the 5' end or small deletions in the ctRNA are capable of controlling their own replication and coexisting with the parental plasmid. We suggest that a mechanism that could have a crucial role in the speciation process of repABC plasmids is to accumulate enough changes in this small region of the ctRNA gene to disrupt heteroduplex formation between the target RNA of one plasmid and the ctRNA of the other. Plasmids carrying these changes will not have defects in their maintenance. 	2015 Mar	Rivera-Urbalejo, América; Rivera-Urbalejo, A; Rivera-Urbalejo; Pérez-Oseguera, Ángeles; Pérez-Oseguera, Á; Pérez-Oseguera; Carreón-Rodríguez, Ofelia E; Carreón-Rodríguez, OE; Carreón-Rodríguez; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	Plasmid
25764543	Arthropod-Spiroplasma relationship in the genomic era.	The genus Spiroplasma comprises wall-less, low-GC bacteria that establish pathogenic, mutualistic and commensal symbiotic associations with arthropods and plants. This review focuses on the symbiotic relationships between Spiroplasma bacteria and arthropod hosts in the context of the available genomic sequences. Spiroplasma genomes are reduced and some contain highly repetitive plectrovirus-related sequences. Spiroplasma's diversity in viral invasion susceptibility, virulence factors, substrate utilization, genome dynamics and symbiotic associations with arthropods make this bacterial genus a biological model that provides insights about the evolutionary traits that shape bacterial symbiotic relationships with eukaryotes. 	2015 Feb	Bolaños, Luis M; Bolaños, LM; Bolaños; Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis E; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	FEMS Microbiol Ecol
25549879	Different sensitivity levels to norspermidine on biofilm formation in clinical and commensal Staphylococcus epidermidis strains.	Biofilm formation on medical and surgical devices is the main virulence factor of Staphylococcus epidermidis. A recent study has shown that norspermidine inhibits and disassembles the biofilm in the wild-type Bacillus subtilis NCBI3610 strain. In this study, the effect of norspermidine on S. epidermidis biofilm formation of clinical or commensal strains was tested. Biofilm producing strains of S. epidermidis were isolated from healthy skin (HS; n = 3), healthy conjunctiva (HC; n = 9) and ocular infection (OI; n = 19). All strains were treated with different concentrations of norspermidine, spermidine, putrescine, and cadaverine (1, 10, 25, 50 and 100 μM), and the biofilm formation was tested on microtiter plate. Besides, cell-free supernatants of S. epidermidis growth at 4 h and 40 h were analyzed by gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry (GC-MS) to detect norspermidine. Results showed that norspermidine at 25 μM and 100 μM prevented the biofilm formation in 45.16% (14/31) and 16.13% (5/31), respectively; only in one isolate from OI, norspermidine did not have effect. Other polyamines as spermidine, putrescine and cadaverine did not have effect on the biofilm formation of the strains tested. Norspermidine was also capable to disassemble a biofilm already formed. Norspermidine was detected in the 40 h cell-free supernatant of S. epidermidis by GC-MS. Norspermidine inhibited the biofilm development of S. epidermidis on the surface of contact lens. In this work, it was demonstrated that S. epidermidis produces and releases norspermidine causing an inhibitory effect on biofilm formation. Moreover, this is the first time showing that clinical S. epidermidis strains have different sensitivity to norspermidine, which suggest that the composition and structure of the biofilms is varied. We propose that norspermidine could potentially be used in the pre-treating of medical and surgical devices to inhibit the biofilm formation. 	2015 Feb	Ramón-Peréz, Miriam L; Ramón-Peréz, ML; Ramón-Peréz; Díaz-Cedillo, Francisco; Díaz-Cedillo, F; Díaz-Cedillo; Contreras-Rodríguez, Araceli; Contreras-Rodríguez, A; Contreras-Rodríguez; Betanzos-Cabrera, Gabriel; Betanzos-Cabrera, G; Betanzos-Cabrera; Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta; Rodríguez-Martínez, Sandra; Rodríguez-Martínez, S; Rodríguez-Martínez; Cancino-Diaz, Mario E; Cancino-Diaz, ME; Cancino-Diaz; Jan-Roblero, Janet; Jan-Roblero, J; Jan-Roblero; Cancino Diaz, Juan C; Cancino Diaz, JC; Cancino Diaz	Microb Pathog
25642223	Genes encoding conserved hypothetical proteins localized in the conjugative transfer region of plasmid pRet42a from Rhizobium etli CFN42 participate in modulating transfer and affect conjugation from different donors.	Among sequenced genomes, it is common to find a high proportion of genes encoding proteins that cannot be assigned a known function. In bacterial genomes, genes related to a similar function are often located in contiguous regions. The presence of genes encoding conserved hypothetical proteins (chp) in such a region may suggest that they are related to that particular function. Plasmid pRet42a from Rhizobium etli CFN42 is a conjugative plasmid containing a segment of approximately 30 Kb encoding genes involved in conjugative transfer. In addition to genes responsible for Dtr (DNA transfer and replication), Mpf (Mating pair formation) and regulation, it has two chp-encoding genes (RHE_PA00163 and RHE_PA00164) and a transcriptional regulator (RHE_PA00165). RHE_PA00163 encodes an uncharacterized protein conserved in bacteria that presents a COG4634 conserved domain, and RHE_PA00164 encodes an uncharacterized conserved protein with a DUF433 domain of unknown function. RHE_PA00165 presents a HTH_XRE domain, characteristic of DNA-binding proteins belonging to the xenobiotic response element family of transcriptional regulators. Interestingly, genes similar to these are also present in transfer regions of plasmids from other bacteria. To determine if these genes participate in conjugative transfer, we mutagenized them and analyzed their conjugative phenotype. A mutant in RHE_PA00163 showed a slight (10 times) but reproducible increase in transfer frequency from Rhizobium donors, while mutants in RHE_PA00164 and RHE_PA00165 lost their ability to transfer the plasmid from some Agrobacterium donors. Our results indicate that the chp-encoding genes located among conjugation genes are indeed related to this function. However, the participation of RHE_PA00164 and RHE_PA00165 is only revealed under very specific circumstances, and is not perceived when the plasmid is transferred from the original host. RHE_PA00163 seems to be a fine-tuning modulator for conjugative transfer. 	2014	López-Fuentes, Eunice; López-Fuentes, E; López-Fuentes; Torres-Tejerizo, Gonzalo; Torres-Tejerizo, G; Torres-Tejerizo; Cervantes, Laura; Cervantes, L; Cervantes; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom	Front Microbiol
25610432	Evolution of small prokaryotic genomes.	As revealed by genome sequencing, the biology of prokaryotes with reduced genomes is strikingly diverse. These include free-living prokaryotes with ∼800 genes as well as endosymbiotic bacteria with as few as ∼140 genes. Comparative genomics is revealing the evolutionary mechanisms that led to these small genomes. In the case of free-living prokaryotes, natural selection directly favored genome reduction, while in the case of endosymbiotic prokaryotes neutral processes played a more prominent role. However, new experimental data suggest that selective processes may be at operation as well for endosymbiotic prokaryotes at least during the first stages of genome reduction. Endosymbiotic prokaryotes have evolved diverse strategies for living with reduced gene sets inside a host-defined medium. These include utilization of host-encoded functions (some of them coded by genes acquired by gene transfer from the endosymbiont and/or other bacteria); metabolic complementation between co-symbionts; and forming consortiums with other bacteria within the host. Recent genome sequencing projects of intracellular mutualistic bacteria showed that previously believed universal evolutionary trends like reduced G+C content and conservation of genome synteny are not always present in highly reduced genomes. Finally, the simplified molecular machinery of some of these organisms with small genomes may be used to aid in the design of artificial minimal cells. Here we review recent genomic discoveries of the biology of prokaryotes endowed with small gene sets and discuss the evolutionary mechanisms that have been proposed to explain their peculiar nature. 	2014	Martínez-Cano, David J; Martínez-Cano, DJ; Martínez-Cano; Reyes-Prieto, Mariana; Reyes-Prieto, M; Reyes-Prieto; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Partida-Martínez, Laila P; Partida-Martínez, LP; Partida-Martínez; Latorre, Amparo; Latorre, A; Latorre; Moya, Andrés; Moya, A; Moya; Delaye, Luis; Delaye, L; Delaye	Front Microbiol
25440551	Characterization of the bacterial biodiversity in Pico cheese (an artisanal Azorean food).	This work presents the first study on the bacterial communities in Pico cheese, a traditional cheese of the Azores (Portugal), made from raw cow's milk. Pyrosequencing of tagged amplicons of the V3-V4 regions of the 16S rDNA and Operational Taxonomic Unit-based (OTU-based) analysis were applied to obtain an overall idea of the microbiota in Pico cheese and to elucidate possible differences between cheese-makers (A, B and C) and maturation times. Pyrosequencing revealed a high bacterial diversity in Pico cheese. Four phyla (Firmicutes, Proteobacteria, Actinobacteria and Bacteroidetes) and 54 genera were identified. The predominant genus was Lactococcus (77% of the sequences). Sequences belonging to major cheese-borne pathogens were not found. Staphylococcus accounted for 0.5% of the sequences. Significant differences in bacterial community composition were observed between cheese-maker B and the other two units that participated in the study. However, OTU analysis identified a set of taxa (Lactococcus, Streptococcus, Acinetobacter, Enterococcus, Lactobacillus, Staphylococcus, Rothia, Pantoea and unclassified genera belonging to the Enterobacteriaceae family) that would represent the core components of artisanal Pico cheese microbiota. A diverse bacterial community was present at early maturation, with an increase in the number of phylotypes up to 2 weeks, followed by a decrease at the end of ripening. The most remarkable trend in abundance patterns throughout ripening was an increase in the number of sequences belonging to the Lactobacillus genus, with a concomitant decrease in Acinetobacter, and Stenotrophomonas. Microbial rank abundance curves showed that Pico cheese's bacterial communities are characterized by a few dominant taxa and many low-abundance, highly diverse taxa that integrate the so-called "rare biosphere".	2015 Jan	Riquelme, Cristina; Riquelme, C; Riquelme; Câmara, Sandra; Câmara, S; Câmara; Dapkevicius, Maria de Lurdes N Enes; Dapkevicius, Mde L; Dapkevicius; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; da Silva, Célia Costa Gomes; da Silva, CC; da Silva; Malcata, F Xavier; Malcata, FX; Malcata; Rego, Oldemiro A; Rego, OA; Rego	Int J Food Microbiol
26598365	Biased Gene Conversion in Rhizobium etli Is Caused by Preferential Double-Strand Breaks on One of the Recombining Homologs.	Gene conversion, the nonreciprocal transfer of information during homologous recombination, is the main process that maintains identity between members of multigene families. Gene conversion in the nitrogenase (nifH) multigene family of Rhizobium etli was analyzed by using a two-plasmid system, where each plasmid carried a copy of nifH. One of the nifH copies was modified, creating restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs) spaced along the gene. Once the modified plasmid was introduced into R. etli, selection was done for cointegration with a resident plasmid lacking the RFLPs. Most of the cointegrate molecules harbor gene conversion events, biased toward a gain of RFLPs. This bias may be explained under the double-strand break repair model by proposing that the nifH gene lacking the RFLPs suffers a DNA double-strand break, so the incoming plasmid functions as a template for repairing the homolog on the resident plasmid. To support this proposal, we cloned an SceI site into the nifH homolog that had the RFLPs used for scoring gene conversion. In vivo expression of the meganuclease I-SceI allowed the generation of a double-strand break on this homolog. Upon introduction of this modified plasmid into an R. etli strain lacking I-SceI, biased gene conversion still favored the retention of markers on the incoming plasmid. In contrast, when the recipient strain ectopically expressed I-SceI, a dramatic reversal in gene conversion bias was seen, favoring the preservation of resident sequences. These results show that biased gene conversion is caused by preferential double-strand breaks on one of the recombining homologs.	2016 02	Yáñez-Cuna, Fares Osam; Yáñez-Cuna, FO; Yáñez-Cuna; Castellanos, Mildred; Castellanos, M; Castellanos; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero	J Bacteriol
26659678	Complete Genome Sequencing of Stenotrophomonas acidaminiphila ZAC14D2_NAIMI4_2, a Multidrug-Resistant Strain Isolated from Sediments of a Polluted River in Mexico, Uncovers New Antibiotic Resistance Genes and a Novel Class-II Lasso Peptide Biosynthesis Gene Cluster.	Here, we report the first complete genome sequence of a Stenotrophomonas acidaminiphila strain, generated with PacBio RS II single-molecule real-time technology, consisting of a single circular chromosome of 4.13 Mb. We annotated mobile genetic elements and natural product biosynthesis clusters, including a novel class-II lasso peptide with a 7-residue macrolactam ring. 	2015 Dec	Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Ochoa-Sánchez, Luz Edith; Ochoa-Sánchez, LE; Ochoa-Sánchez	Genome Announc
26494682	Draft Genome Sequence of Aeromonas caviae Strain 429865 INP, Isolated from a Mexican Patient.	Aeromonas caviae is an emerging human pathogen. Here, we report the draft genome sequence of Aeromonas caviae strain 429865 INP which shows the presence of various putative virulence-related genes. 	2015 Oct	Padilla, Juan Carlos A; Padilla, JC; Padilla; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Castro-Escarpulli, Graciela; Castro-Escarpulli, G; Castro-Escarpulli; Sánchez-Varela, Alejandro; Sánchez-Varela, A; Sánchez-Varela; Palma-Martinez, Ingrid; Palma-Martinez, I; Palma-Martinez; Arzate-Barbosa, Patricia; Arzate-Barbosa, P; Arzate-Barbosa; García-Pérez, Carlos A; García-Pérez, CA; García-Pérez; López-López, María de Jesús; López-López, Mde J; López-López; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Guo, Xianwu; Guo, X; Guo	Genome Announc
25953176	Draft Genome Sequence of Arthrobacter chlorophenolicus Strain Mor30.16, Isolated from the Bean Rhizosphere.	Bacteria of the genus Arthrobacter are commonly found in the soil and plant rhizosphere. In this study we report the draft genome of Arthrobacter chlorophenolicus strain Mor30.16 that was isolated from rhizosphere of beans grown in Cuernavaca Morelos, Mexico. This strain promotes growth and ameliorates drought stress in bean plants. 	2015 May	Miranda-Ríos, José Antonio; Miranda-Ríos, JA; Miranda-Ríos; Ramírez-Trujillo, José Augusto; Ramírez-Trujillo, JA; Ramírez-Trujillo; Nova-Franco, Bárbara; Nova-Franco, B; Nova-Franco; Lozano-Aguirre Beltrán, Luis Fernando; Lozano-Aguirre Beltrán, LF; Lozano-Aguirre Beltrán; Iturriaga, Gabriel; Iturriaga, G; Iturriaga; Suárez-Rodríguez, Ramón; Suárez-Rodríguez, R; Suárez-Rodríguez	Genome Announc
25676753	Draft Genome Sequence of Bacillus amyloliquefaciens JJC33M, Isolated from Sugarcane Soils in the Papaloapan Region, Mexico.	Bacillus amyloliquefaciens strain JJC33M is a bacterium that produces α-amylase (EC 3.2.1.1) and was isolated from sugarcane soil. Its estimated genome size is 3.96 Mb, and it harbors 4,048 coding genes (CDSs). 	2015 Feb	Montor-Antonio, J J; Montor-Antonio, JJ; Montor-Antonio; Sachman-Ruiz, B; Sachman-Ruiz, B; Sachman-Ruiz; Lozano, L; Lozano, L; Lozano; Del Moral, S; Del Moral, S; Del Moral	Genome Announc
25154054	Proteomic analysis of chloroplast biogenesis (clb) mutants uncovers novel proteins potentially involved in the development of Arabidopsis thaliana chloroplasts.	Plant cells outstand for their ability to generate biomass from inorganic sources, this phenomenon takes place within the chloroplasts. The enzymatic machinery and developmental processes of chloroplasts have been subject of research for several decades, and this has resulted in the identification of a plethora of proteins that are essential for their development and function. Mutant lines for the genes that code for those proteins, often display pigment-accumulation defects (e.g., albino phenotypes). Here, we present a comparative proteomic analysis of four chloroplast-biogenesis affected mutants (cla1-1, clb2, clb5, clb19) aiming to identify novel proteins involved in the regulation of chloroplast development in Arabidopsis thaliana. We performed 2D-PAGE separation of the protein samples. These samples were then analyzed by computational processing of gel images in order to select protein spots with abundance shifts of at least twofold, statistically significant according to Student's t-test (P<0.01). These spots were subjected to MALDI-TOF mass-spectrometry for protein identification. This process resulted in the discovery of three novel proteins potentially involved in the development of A. thaliana chloroplasts, as their associated mutant lines segregate pigment-deficient plants with abnormal chloroplasts, and altered mRNA accumulation of chloroplast-development marker genes.	2014 Dec	de Luna-Valdez, L A; de Luna-Valdez, LA; de Luna-Valdez; Martínez-Batallar, A G; Martínez-Batallar, AG; Martínez-Batallar; Hernández-Ortiz, M; Hernández-Ortiz, M; Hernández-Ortiz; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Ramos-Vega, M; Ramos-Vega, M; Ramos-Vega; López-Bucio, J S; López-Bucio, JS; López-Bucio; León, P; León, P; León; Guevara-García, A A; Guevara-García, AA; Guevara-García	J Proteomics
23834084	Complete mitochondrial genome recovered from the gut metagenome of overwintering monarch butterflies, Danaus plexippus (L.) (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae, Danainae).	We present a 15,314 bp mitochondrial genome (mitogenome) sequence from monarch butterflies overwintering in Mexico. The complete mitogenome was generated by next generation sequencing techniques and was reconstructed by iterative assembly of reads from a metagenomic study of pooled butterfly gut DNA. The mitogenome codes for 13 putative protein coding genes, 22 tRNA genes, the large and small rRNA genes, and contains the A + T-rich sequence corresponding to the control region. The consensus sequence presented here has a depth of coverage of 142-fold and only three putative single nucleotide polymorphisms could be detected. The recovered D. plexippus mitogenome represents the second analyzed for the subfamily Danainae and accordingly, the closest available sequenced mitogenome was found to be the one corresponding to Euploea mulciber (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae, Danainae).	2014 Dec	Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis E; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Mitochondrial DNA
25098225	Cupriavidus plantarum sp. nov., a plant-associated species.	During a survey of plant-associated bacteria in northeast Mexico, a group of 13 bacteria was isolated from agave, maize and sorghum plants rhizosphere. This group of strains was related to Cupriavidus respiraculi (99.4 %), but a polyphasic investigation based on DNA-DNA hybridization analysis, other genotypic studies and phenotypic features showed that this group of strains actually belongs to a new Cupriavidus species. Consequently, taking all the results together, the description of Cupriavidus plantarum sp. nov. is proposed. 	2014 Nov	Estrada-de Los Santos, Paulina; Estrada-de Los Santos, P; Estrada-de Los Santos; Solano-Rodríguez, Roosivelt; Solano-Rodríguez, R; Solano-Rodríguez; Matsumura-Paz, Lucía Tomiko; Matsumura-Paz, LT; Matsumura-Paz; Vásquez-Murrieta, María Soledad; Vásquez-Murrieta, MS; Vásquez-Murrieta; Martínez-Aguilar, Lourdes; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar	Arch Microbiol
25426171	Reducing INDEL calling errors in whole genome and exome sequencing data.	INDELs, especially those disrupting protein-coding regions of the genome, have been strongly associated with human diseases. However, there are still many errors with INDEL variant calling, driven by library preparation, sequencing biases, and algorithm artifacts.	2014	Fang, Han; Fang, H; Fang; Wu, Yiyang; Wu, Y; Wu; Narzisi, Giuseppe; Narzisi, G; Narzisi; O'Rawe, Jason A; O'Rawe, JA; O'Rawe; Barrón, Laura T Jimenez; Barrón, LT; Barrón; Rosenbaum, Julie; Rosenbaum, J; Rosenbaum; Ronemus, Michael; Ronemus, M; Ronemus; Iossifov, Ivan; Iossifov, I; Iossifov; Schatz, Michael C; Schatz, MC; Schatz; Lyon, Gholson J; Lyon, GJ; Lyon	Genome Med
25283805	An RNA-Seq based gene expression atlas of the common bean.	Common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) is grown throughout the world and comprises roughly 50% of the grain legumes consumed worldwide. Despite this, genetic resources for common beans have been lacking. Next generation sequencing, has facilitated our investigation of the gene expression profiles associated with biologically important traits in common bean. An increased understanding of gene expression in common bean will improve our understanding of gene expression patterns in other legume species.	2014 Oct	O'Rourke, Jamie A; O'Rourke, JA; O'Rourke; Iniguez, Luis P; Iniguez, LP; Iniguez; Fu, Fengli; Fu, F; Fu; Bucciarelli, Bruna; Bucciarelli, B; Bucciarelli; Miller, Susan S; Miller, SS; Miller; Jackson, Scott A; Jackson, SA; Jackson; McClean, Philip E; McClean, PE; McClean; Li, Jun; Li, J; Li; Dai, Xinbin; Dai, X; Dai; Zhao, Patrick X; Zhao, PX; Zhao; Hernandez, Georgina; Hernandez, G; Hernandez; Vance, Carroll P; Vance, CP; Vance	BMC Genomics
24739628	Interspecies competition triggers virulence and mutability in Candida albicans-Pseudomonas aeruginosa mixed biofilms.	Inter-kingdom and interspecies interactions are ubiquitous in nature and are important for the survival of species and ecological balance. The investigation of microbe-microbe interactions is essential for understanding the in vivo activities of commensal and pathogenic microorganisms. Candida albicans, a polymorphic fungus, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, a Gram-negative bacterium, are two opportunistic pathogens that interact in various polymicrobial infections in humans. To determine how P. aeruginosa affects the physiology of C. albicans and vice versa, we compared the proteomes of each species in mixed biofilms versus single-species biofilms. In addition, extracellular proteins were analyzed. We observed that, in mixed biofilms, both species showed differential expression of virulence proteins, multidrug resistance-associated proteins, proteases and cell defense, stress and iron-regulated proteins. Furthermore, in mixed biofilms, both species displayed an increase in mutability compared with monospecific biofilms. This characteristic was correlated with the downregulation of enzymes conferring protection against DNA oxidation. In mixed biofilms, P. aeruginosa regulates its production of various molecules involved in quorum sensing and induces the production of virulence factors (pyoverdine, rhamnolipids and pyocyanin), which are major contributors to the ability of this bacterium to cause disease. Overall, our results indicate that interspecies competition between these opportunistic pathogens enhances the production of virulence factors and increases mutability and thus can alter the course of host-pathogen interactions in polymicrobial infections. 	2014 Oct	Trejo-Hernández, Abigail; Trejo-Hernández, A; Trejo-Hernández; Andrade-Domínguez, Andrés; Andrade-Domínguez, A; Andrade-Domínguez; Hernández, Magdalena; Hernández, M; Hernández; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación	ISME J
25302567	Positive selection and compensatory adaptation interact to stabilize non-transmissible plasmids.	Plasmids are important drivers of bacterial evolution, but it is challenging to understand how plasmids persist over the long term because plasmid carriage is costly. Classical models predict that horizontal transfer is necessary for plasmid persistence, but recent work shows that almost half of plasmids are non-transmissible. Here we use a combination of mathematical modelling and experimental evolution to investigate how a costly, non-transmissible plasmid, pNUK73, can be maintained in populations of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Compensatory adaptation increases plasmid stability by eliminating the cost of plasmid carriage. However, positive selection for plasmid-encoded antibiotic resistance is required to maintain the plasmid by offsetting reductions in plasmid frequency due to segregational loss. Crucially, we show that compensatory adaptation and positive selection reinforce each other's effects. Our study provides a new understanding of how plasmids persist in bacterial populations, and it helps to explain why resistance can be maintained after antibiotic use is stopped. 	2014 Oct	San Millan, A; San Millan, A; San Millan; Peña-Miller, R; Peña-Miller, R; Peña-Miller; Toll-Riera, M; Toll-Riera, M; Toll-Riera; Halbert, Z V; Halbert, ZV; Halbert; McLean, A R; McLean, AR; McLean; Cooper, B S; Cooper, BS; Cooper; MacLean, R C; MacLean, RC; MacLean	Nat Commun
24952318	Symbiont shift towards Rhizobium nodulation in a group of phylogenetically related Phaseolus species.	Bean plants from the Phaseolus genus are widely consumed and represent a nitrogen source for human nutrition. They provide biological fertilization by establishing root nodule symbiosis with nitrogen-fixing bacteria. To establish a successful interaction, bean plants and their symbiotic bacteria need to synchronize a proper molecular crosstalk. Within the Phaseolus genus, P. vulgaris has been the prominent species to study nodulation with Rhizobium symbionts. However the Phaseolus genus comprises diverse species whose symbionts have not been analyzed. Here we identified and studied nodule bacteria from representative Phaseolus species not previously analyzed and from all the described wild species related to P. vulgaris. We found Bradyrhizobium in nodules from most species representing all Phaseolus clades except in five phylogenetically related species from the P. vulgaris clade. Therefore we propose that Bradyrhizobium nodulation is common in Phaseolus and that there was a symbiont preference shift to Rhizobium nodulation in few related species. This work sets the basis to further study the genetic basis of this symbiont substitution. 	2014 Oct	Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis E; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Zayas-Del Moral, Alejandra; Zayas-Del Moral, A; Zayas-Del Moral; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Delgado-Salinas, Alfonso; Delgado-Salinas, A; Delgado-Salinas; Sánchez, Federico; Sánchez, F; Sánchez; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Mol Phylogenet Evol
25054342	The cation diffusion facilitator protein EmfA of Rhizobium etli belongs to a novel subfamily of Mn(2+)/Fe(2+) transporters conserved in α-proteobacteria.	Manganese (Mn(2+)) plays a key role in important cellular functions such as oxidative stress response and bacterial virulence. The mechanisms of Mn(2+) homeostasis are not fully understood, there are few data regarding the functional and taxonomic diversity of Mn(2+) exporters. Our recent phylogeny of the cation diffusion facilitator (CDF) family of transporters classified the bacterial Mn(2+)-CDF transporters characterized to date, Streptococcus pneumoniae MntE and Deinococcus radiodurans DR1236, into two monophyletic groups. DR1236 was shown to belong to the highly-diverse metal specificity clade VI, together with TtCzrB, a Zn(2+)/Cd(2+) transporter from Thermus thermophilus, the Fe(2+) transporter Sll1263 from Synechocystis sp and eight uncharacterized homologs whose potential Mn(2+)/Zn(2+)/Cd(2+)/Fe(2+) specificities could not be accurately inferred because only eleven proteins were grouped in this clade. A new phylogeny inferred from the alignment of 197 clade VI homologs revealed three novel subfamilies of uncharacterized proteins. Remarkably, one of them contained 91 uncharacterized α-proteobacteria transporters (46% of the protein data set) grouped into a single subfamily. The Mn(2+)/Fe(2+) specificity of this subfamily was proposed through the functional characterization of the Rhizobium etli RHE_CH03072 gene. This gene was upregulated by Mn(2+), Zn(2+), Cd(2+) and Fe(2+) but conferred only Mn(2+) resistance to R. etli. The expression of the RHE_CH03072 gene in an E. coli mntP/zitB/zntA mutant did not relieve either Zn(2+) or Mn(2+) stress but slightly increased its Fe(2+) resistance. These results indicate that the RHE_CH03072 gene, now designated as emfA, encodes for a bacterial Mn(2+)/Fe(2+) resistance CDF protein, having orthologs in more than 60 α-proteobacterial species. 	2014 Oct	Cubillas, Ciro; Cubillas, C; Cubillas; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Tabche, Maria Luisa; Tabche, ML; Tabche; Dávalos, Araceli; Dávalos, A; Dávalos; Vázquez, Alejandra; Vázquez, A; Vázquez; Hernández-Lucas, Ismael; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; García-de los Santos, Alejandro; García-de los Santos, A; García-de los Santos	Metallomics
25201548	RNA-Seq analysis of the multipartite genome of Rhizobium etli CE3 shows different replicon contributions under heat and saline shock.	Regulation of transcription is essential for any organism and Rhizobium etli (a multi-replicon, nitrogen-fixing symbiotic bacterium) is no exception. This bacterium is commonly found in the rhizosphere (free-living) or inside of root-nodules of the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) in a symbiotic relationship. Abiotic stresses, such as high soil temperatures and salinity, compromise the genetic stability of R. etli and therefore its symbiotic interaction with P. vulgaris. However, it is still unclear which genes are up- or down-regulated to cope with these stress conditions. The aim of this study was to identify the genes and non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) that are differentially expressed under heat and saline shock, as well as the promoter regions of the up-regulated loci.	2014 Sep	López-Leal, Gamaliel; López-Leal, G; López-Leal; Tabche, Maria Luisa; Tabche, ML; Tabche; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Mendoza-Vargas, Alfredo; Mendoza-Vargas, A; Mendoza-Vargas; Ramírez-Romero, Miguel A; Ramírez-Romero, MA; Ramírez-Romero; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila	BMC Genomics
24493659	A novel TctA citrate transporter from an activated sludge metagenome: structural and mechanistic predictions for the TTT family.	We isolated a putative citrate transporter of the tripartite tricarboxylate transporter (TTT) class from a metagenomic library of activated sludge from a sewage treatment plant. The transporter, dubbed TctA_ar, shares ∼50% sequence identity with TctA of Comamonas testosteroni (TctA_ct) and other β-Proteobacteria, and contains two 20-amino acid repeat signature sequences, considered a hallmark of this particular transporter class. The structures for both TctA_ar and TctA_ct were modeled with I-TASSER and two possible structures for this transporter family were proposed. Docking assays with citrate resulted in the corresponding sets of proposed critical residues for function. These models suggest functions for the 20-amino acid repeats in the context of the two different architectures. This constitutes the first attempt at structure modeling of the TTT family, to the best of our knowledge, and could aid functional understanding of this little-studied family.	2014 Sep	Batista-García, Ramón Alberto; Batista-García, RA; Batista-García; Sánchez-Reyes, Ayixon; Sánchez-Reyes, A; Sánchez-Reyes; Millán-Pacheco, César; Millán-Pacheco, C; Millán-Pacheco; González-Zuñiga, Víctor Manuel; González-Zuñiga, VM; González-Zuñiga; Juárez, Soledad; Juárez, S; Juárez; Folch-Mallol, Jorge Luis; Folch-Mallol, JL; Folch-Mallol; Pastor, Nina; Pastor, N; Pastor	Proteins
25002426	Nitrogen-fixing rhizobial strains isolated from common bean seeds: phylogeny, physiology, and genome analysis.	Rhizobial bacteria are commonly found in soil but also establish symbiotic relationships with legumes, inhabiting the root nodules, where they fix nitrogen. Endophytic rhizobia have also been reported in the roots and stems of legumes and other plants. We isolated several rhizobial strains from the nodules of noninoculated bean plants and looked for their provenance in the interiors of the seeds. Nine isolates were obtained, covering most known bean symbiont species, which belong to the Rhizobium and Sinorhizobium groups. The strains showed several large plasmids, except for a Sinorhizobium americanum isolate. Two strains, one Rhizobium phaseoli and one S. americanum strain, were thoroughly characterized. Optimal symbiotic performance was observed for both of these strains. The S. americanum strain showed biotin prototrophy when subcultured, as well as high pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) activity, both of which are key factors in maintaining optimal growth. The R. phaseoli strain was a biotin auxotroph, did not grow when subcultured, accumulated a large amount of poly-β-hydroxybutyrate, and exhibited low PDH activity. The physiology and genomes of these strains showed features that may have resulted from their lifestyle inside the seeds: stress sensitivity, a ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RubisCO) complex, a homocitrate synthase (usually present only in free-living diazotrophs), a hydrogenase uptake cluster, and the presence of prophages. We propose that colonization by rhizobia and their presence in Phaseolus seeds may be part of a persistence mechanism that helps to retain and disperse rhizobial strains. 	2014 Sep	Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Díaz, Rafael; Díaz, R; Díaz; Vargas-Lagunas, Carmen; Vargas-Lagunas, C; Vargas-Lagunas; Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta; Guerrero, Gabriela; Guerrero, G; Guerrero; Aguilar, Alejandro; Aguilar, A; Aguilar; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	Appl Environ Microbiol
24972614	Rhizobium paranaense sp. nov., an effective N2-fixing symbiont of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) with broad geographical distribution in Brazil.	Nitrogen (N), the nutrient most required for plant growth, is key for good yield of agriculturally important crops. Common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) can benefit from bacteria collectively called rhizobia, which are capable of fixing atmospheric nitrogen (N2) in root nodules and supplying it to the plant. Common bean is amongst the most promiscuous legume hosts; several described species, in addition to putative novel ones have been reported as able to nodulate this legume, although not always effectively in terms of fixing N2. In this study, we present data indicating that Brazilian strains PRF 35(T), PRF 54, CPAO 1135 and H 52, currently classified as Rhizobium tropici, represent a novel species symbiont of common bean. Morphological, physiological and biochemical properties differentiate these strains from other species of the genus Rhizobium, as do BOX-PCR profiles (less than 60 % similarity), multilocus sequence analysis with recA, gyrB and rpoA (less than 96.4 % sequence similarity), DNA-DNA hybridization (less than 50 % DNA-DNA relatedness), and average nucleotide identity of whole genomes (less than 92.8.%). The novel species is effective in nodulating and fixing N2 with P. vulgaris, Leucaena leucocephala and Leucaena esculenta. We propose the name Rhizobium paranaense sp. nov. for this novel taxon, with strain PRF 35(T) ( = CNPSo 120(T) = LMG 27577(T) = IPR-Pv 1249(T)) as the type strain. 	2014 Sep	Dall'Agnol, Rebeca Fuzinatto; Dall'Agnol, RF; Dall'Agnol; Ribeiro, Renan Augusto; Ribeiro, RA; Ribeiro; Delamuta, Jakeline Renata Marçon; Delamuta, JRM; Delamuta; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Rogel, Marco Antonio; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Andrade, Diva Souza; Andrade, DS; Andrade; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Hungria, Mariangela; Hungria, M; Hungria	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
25136970	Bistable expression of virulence genes in salmonella leads to the formation of an antibiotic-tolerant subpopulation.	Phenotypic heterogeneity can confer clonal groups of organisms with new functionality. A paradigmatic example is the bistable expression of virulence genes in Salmonella typhimurium, which leads to phenotypically virulent and phenotypically avirulent subpopulations. The two subpopulations have been shown to divide labor during S. typhimurium infections. Here, we show that heterogeneous virulence gene expression in this organism also promotes survival against exposure to antibiotics through a bet-hedging mechanism. Using microfluidic devices in combination with fluorescence time-lapse microscopy and quantitative image analysis, we analyzed the expression of virulence genes at the single cell level and related it to survival when exposed to antibiotics. We found that, across different types of antibiotics and under concentrations that are clinically relevant, the subpopulation of bacterial cells that express virulence genes shows increased survival after exposure to antibiotics. Intriguingly, there is an interplay between the two consequences of phenotypic heterogeneity. The bet-hedging effect that arises through heterogeneity in virulence gene expression can protect clonal populations against avirulent mutants that exploit and subvert the division of labor within these populations. We conclude that bet-hedging and the division of labor can arise through variation in a single trait and interact with each other. This reveals a new degree of functional complexity of phenotypic heterogeneity. In addition, our results suggest a general principle of how pathogens can evade antibiotics: Expression of virulence factors often entails metabolic costs and the resulting growth retardation could generally increase tolerance against antibiotics and thus compromise treatment. 	2014 Aug	Arnoldini, Markus; Arnoldini, M; Arnoldini; Vizcarra, Ima Avalos; Vizcarra, IA; Vizcarra; Peña-Miller, Rafael; Peña-Miller, R; Peña-Miller; Stocker, Nicolas; Stocker, N; Stocker; Diard, Médéric; Diard, M; Diard; Vogel, Viola; Vogel, V; Vogel; Beardmore, Robert E; Beardmore, RE; Beardmore; Hardt, Wolf-Dietrich; Hardt, WD; Hardt; Ackermann, Martin; Ackermann, M; Ackermann	PLoS Biol
25005495	Genomic basis of symbiovar mimosae in Rhizobium etli.	Symbiosis genes (nod and nif) involved in nodulation and nitrogen fixation in legumes are plasmid-borne in Rhizobium. Rhizobial symbiotic variants (symbiovars) with distinct host specificity would depend on the type of symbiosis plasmid. In Rhizobium etli or in Rhizobium phaseoli, symbiovar phaseoli strains have the capacity to form nodules in Phaseolus vulgaris while symbiovar mimosae confers a broad host range including different mimosa trees.	2014 Jul	Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Santamaría, Rosa I; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Cevallos, Miguel Ángel; Cevallos, MÁ; Cevallos; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Castro-Mondragón, Jaime; Castro-Mondragón, J; Castro-Mondragón; Martínez-Romero, Julio; Martínez-Romero, J; Martínez-Romero; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	BMC Genomics
24812050	Testing the optimality properties of a dual antibiotic treatment in a two-locus, two-allele model.	Mathematically speaking, it is self-evident that the optimal control of complex, dynamical systems with many interacting components cannot be achieved with 'non-responsive' control strategies that are constant through time. Although there are notable exceptions, this is usually how we design treatments with antimicrobial drugs when we give the same dose and the same antibiotic combination each day. Here, we use a frequency- and density-dependent pharmacogenetics mathematical model based on a standard, two-locus, two-allele representation of how bacteria resist antibiotics to probe the question of whether optimal antibiotic treatments might, in fact, be constant through time. The model describes the ecological and evolutionary dynamics of different sub-populations of the bacterium Escherichia coli that compete for a single limiting resource in a two-drug environment. We use in vitro evolutionary experiments to calibrate and test the model and show that antibiotic environments can support dynamically changing and heterogeneous population structures. We then demonstrate, theoretically and empirically, that the best treatment strategies should adapt through time and constant strategies are not optimal. 	2014 Jul	Peña-Miller, Rafael; Peña-Miller, R; Peña-Miller; Fuentes-Hernandez, Ayari; Fuentes-Hernandez, A; Fuentes-Hernandez; Reding, Carlos; Reding, C; Reding; Gudelj, Ivana; Gudelj, I; Gudelj; Beardmore, Robert; Beardmore, R; Beardmore	J R Soc Interface
24831014	Cu(I)-mediated allosteric switching in a copper-sensing operon repressor (CsoR).	The copper-sensing operon repressor (CsoR) is representative of a major Cu(I)-sensing family of bacterial metalloregulatory proteins that has evolved to prevent cytoplasmic copper toxicity. It is unknown how Cu(I) binding to tetrameric CsoRs mediates transcriptional derepression of copper resistance genes. A phylogenetic analysis of 227 DUF156 protein members, including biochemically or structurally characterized CsoR/RcnR repressors, reveals that Geobacillus thermodenitrificans (Gt) CsoR characterized here is representative of CsoRs from pathogenic bacilli Listeria monocytogenes and Bacillus anthracis. The 2.56 Å structure of Cu(I)-bound Gt CsoR reveals that Cu(I) binding induces a kink in the α2-helix between two conserved copper-ligating residues and folds an N-terminal tail (residues 12-19) over the Cu(I) binding site. NMR studies of Gt CsoR reveal that this tail is flexible in the apo-state with these dynamics quenched upon Cu(I) binding. Small angle x-ray scattering experiments on an N-terminally truncated Gt CsoR (Δ2-10) reveal that the Cu(I)-bound tetramer is hydrodynamically more compact than is the apo-state. The implications of these findings for the allosteric mechanisms of other CsoR/RcnR repressors are discussed. 	2014 Jul	Chang, Feng-Ming James; Chang, FM; Chang; Coyne, H Jerome; Coyne, HJ; Coyne; Cubillas, Ciro; Cubillas, C; Cubillas; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Fang, Xianyang; Fang, X; Fang; Ma, Zhen; Ma, Z; Ma; Ma, Dejian; Ma, D; Ma; Helmann, John D; Helmann, JD; Helmann; García-de los Santos, Alejandro; García-de los Santos, A; García-de los Santos; Wang, Yun-Xing; Wang, YX; Wang; Dann, Charles E; Dann, CE; Dann; Giedroc, David P; Giedroc, DP; Giedroc	J Biol Chem
24903516	Assisted curation of regulatory interactions and growth conditions of OxyR in E. coli K-12.	Given the current explosion of data within original publications generated in the field of genomics, a recognized bottleneck is the transfer of such knowledge into comprehensive databases. We have for years organized knowledge on transcriptional regulation reported in the original literature of Escherichia coli K-12 into RegulonDB (http://regulondb.ccg.unam.mx), our database that is currently supported by >5000 papers. Here, we report a first step towards the automatic biocuration of growth conditions in this corpus. Using the OntoGene text-mining system (http://www.ontogene.org), we extracted and manually validated regulatory interactions and growth conditions in a new approach based on filters that enable the curator to select informative sentences from preprocessed full papers. Based on a set of 48 papers dealing with oxidative stress by OxyR, we were able to retrieve 100% of the OxyR regulatory interactions present in RegulonDB, including the transcription factors and their effect on target genes. Our strategy was designed to extract, as we did, their growth conditions. This result provides a proof of concept for a more direct and efficient curation process, and enables us to define the strategy of the subsequent steps to be implemented for a semi-automatic curation of original literature dealing with regulation of gene expression in bacteria. This project will enhance the efficiency and quality of the curation of knowledge present in the literature of gene regulation, and contribute to a significant increase in the encoding of the regulatory network of E. coli. RegulonDB Database URL: http://regulondb.ccg.unam.mx OntoGene URL: http://www.ontogene.org. 	2014	Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Rinaldi, Fabio; Rinaldi, F; Rinaldi; López-Fuentes, Alejandra; López-Fuentes, A; López-Fuentes; Balderas-Martínez, Yalbi Itzel; Balderas-Martínez, YI; Balderas-Martínez; Clematide, Simon; Clematide, S; Clematide; Ellendorff, Tilia Renate; Ellendorff, TR; Ellendorff; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Marques-Madeira, Hernani; Marques-Madeira, H; Marques-Madeira; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Database (Oxford)
24888481	Comparative genomics of Bradyrhizobium japonicum CPAC 15 and Bradyrhizobium diazoefficiens CPAC 7: elite model strains for understanding symbiotic performance with soybean.	The soybean-Bradyrhizobium symbiosis can be highly efficient in fixing nitrogen, but few genomic sequences of elite inoculant strains are available. Here we contribute with information on the genomes of two commercial strains that are broadly applied to soybean crops in the tropics. B. japonicum CPAC 15 (=SEMIA 5079) is outstanding in its saprophytic capacity and competitiveness, whereas B. diazoefficiens CPAC 7 (=SEMIA 5080) is known for its high efficiency in fixing nitrogen. Both are well adapted to tropical soils. The genomes of CPAC 15 and CPAC 7 were compared to each other and also to those of B. japonicum USDA 6T and B. diazoefficiens USDA 110T.	2014 Jun	Siqueira, Arthur Fernandes; Siqueira, AF; Siqueira; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Souza, Rangel Celso; Souza, RC; Souza; Rodrigues, Elisete Pains; Rodrigues, EP; Rodrigues; Almeida, Luiz Gonzaga Paula; Almeida, LG; Almeida; Barcellos, Fernando Gomes; Barcellos, FG; Barcellos; Batista, Jesiane Stefânia Silva; Batista, JS; Batista; Nakatani, Andre Shigueyoshi; Nakatani, AS; Nakatani; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Vasconcelos, Ana Tereza Ribeiro; Vasconcelos, AT; Vasconcelos; Hungria, Mariangela; Hungria, M; Hungria	BMC Genomics
24664579	Bradyrhizobium paxllaeri sp. nov. and Bradyrhizobium icense sp. nov., nitrogen-fixing rhizobial symbionts of Lima bean (Phaseolus lunatus L.) in Peru.	A group of strains isolated from root nodules of Phaseolus lunatus (Lima bean) in Peru were characterized by genotypic, genomic and phenotypic methods. All strains possessed identical 16S rRNA gene sequences that were 99.9% identical to that of Bradyrhizobium lablabi CCBAU 23086(T). Despite having identical 16S rRNA gene sequences, the Phaseolus lunatus strains could be divided into two clades by sequence analysis of recA, atpD, glnII, dnaK and gyrB genes. The genome sequence of a representative of each clade was obtained and compared to the genomes of closely related species of the genus Bradyrhizobium. Average nucleotide identity values below the species circumscription threshold were obtained when comparing the two clades to each other (88.6%) and with all type strains of the genus Bradyrhizobium (≤92.9%). Phenotypes distinguishing both clades from all described and closely related species of the genus Bradyrhizobium were found. On the basis of the results obtained, two novel species, Bradyrhizobium paxllaeri sp. nov. (type strain LMTR 21(T) = DSM 18454(T) = HAMBI 2911(T)) and Bradyrhizobium icense sp. nov. (type strain LMTR 13(T) = HAMBI 3584(T) = CECT 8509(T) = CNPSo 2583(T)), are proposed to accommodate the uncovered clades of Phaseolus lunatus bradyrhizobia. These species share highly related but distinct nifH and nodC symbiosis genes.	2014 Jun	Durán, David; Durán, D; Durán; Rey, Luis; Rey, L; Rey; Mayo, Juan; Mayo, J; Mayo; Zúñiga-Dávila, Doris; Zúñiga-Dávila, D; Zúñiga-Dávila; Imperial, Juan; Imperial, J; Imperial; Ruiz-Argüeso, Tomás; Ruiz-Argüeso, T; Ruiz-Argüeso; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
24886809	Differential proteomic analysis of the pancreas of diabetic db/db mice reveals the proteins involved in the development of complications of diabetes mellitus.	Type 2 diabetes mellitus is characterized by hyperglycemia and insulin-resistance. Diabetes results from pancreatic inability to secrete the insulin needed to overcome this resistance. We analyzed the protein profile from the pancreas of ten-week old diabetic db/db and wild type mice through proteomics. Pancreatic proteins were separated in two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (2D-PAGE) and significant changes in db/db mice respect to wild type mice were observed in 27 proteins. Twenty five proteins were identified by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) time-of-flight (TOF) and their interactions were analyzed using search tool for the retrieval of interacting genes/proteins (STRING) and database for annotation, visualization and integrated discovery (DAVID). Some of these proteins were Pancreatic α-amylase, Cytochrome b5, Lithostathine-1, Lithostathine-2, Chymotrypsinogen B, Peroxiredoxin-4, Aspartyl aminopeptidase, Endoplasmin, and others, which are involved in the metabolism of carbohydrates and proteins, as well as in oxidative stress, and inflammation. Remarkably, these are mostly endoplasmic reticulum proteins related to peptidase activity, i.e., they are involved in proteolysis, glucose catabolism and in the tumor necrosis factor-mediated signaling pathway. These results suggest mechanisms for insulin resistance, and the chronic inflammatory state observed in diabetes. 	2014 May	Pérez-Vázquez, Victoriano; Pérez-Vázquez, V; Pérez-Vázquez; Guzmán-Flores, Juan M; Guzmán-Flores, JM; Guzmán-Flores; Mares-Álvarez, Daniela; Mares-Álvarez, D; Mares-Álvarez; Hernández-Ortiz, Magdalena; Hernández-Ortiz, M; Hernández-Ortiz; Macías-Cervantes, Maciste H; Macías-Cervantes, MH; Macías-Cervantes; Ramírez-Emiliano, Joel; Ramírez-Emiliano, J; Ramírez-Emiliano; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara	Int J Mol Sci
24646299	Rhizobial plasmid pLPU83a is able to switch between different transfer machineries depending on its genomic background.	Plasmids have played a major role in bacterial evolution, mainly by their capacity to perform horizontal gene transfer (HGT). Their conjugative transfer (CT) properties are usually described in terms of the plasmid itself. In this work, we analyzed structural and functional aspects of the CT of pLPU83a, an accessory replicon from Rhizobium sp. LPU83, able to transfer from its parental strain, from Ensifer meliloti, or from Rhizobium etli. pLPU83a contains a complete set of transfer genes, featuring a particular organization, shared with only two other rhizobial plasmids. These plasmids contain a TraR quorum-sensing (QS) transcriptional regulator, but lack an acyl-homoserine lactone (AHL) synthase gene. We also determined that the ability of pLPU83a to transfer from R. etli CFN42 genomic background was mainly achieved through mobilization, employing the machinery of the endogenous plasmid pRetCFN42a, falling under control of the QS regulators from pRetCFN42a. In contrast, from its native or from the E. meliloti background, pLPU83a utilized its own machinery for conjugation, requiring the plasmid-encoded traR. Activation of TraR seemed to be AHL independent. The results obtained indicate that the CT phenotype of a plasmid is dictated not only by the genes it carries, but by their interaction with its genomic context.	2014 Jun	Torres Tejerizo, Gonzalo; Torres Tejerizo, G; Torres Tejerizo; Pistorio, Mariano; Pistorio, M; Pistorio; Althabegoiti, María J; Althabegoiti, MJ; Althabegoiti; Cervantes, Laura; Cervantes, L; Cervantes; Wibberg, Daniel; Wibberg, D; Wibberg; Schlüter, Andreas; Schlüter, A; Schlüter; Pühler, Alfred; Pühler, A; Pühler; Lagares, Antonio; Lagares, A; Lagares; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom	FEMS Microbiol Ecol
24720747	The Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi ltrR-ompR-ompC-ompF genes are involved in resistance to the bile salt sodium deoxycholate and in bacterial transformation.	A characterization of the LtrR regulator, an S. Typhi protein belonging to the LysR family is presented. Proteomics, outer membrane protein profiles and transcriptional analyses demonstrated that LtrR is required for the synthesis of OmpR, OmpC and OmpF. DNA-protein interaction analysis showed that LtrR binds to the regulatory region of ompR and then OmpR interacts with the ompC and ompF promoters inducing porin synthesis. LtrR-dependent and independent ompR promoters were identified, and both promoters are involved in the synthesis of OmpR for OmpC and OmpF production. To define the functional role of the ltrR-ompR-ompC-ompF genetic network, mutants in each gene were obtained. We found that ltrR, ompR, ompC and ompF were involved in the control of bacterial transformation, while the two regulators and ompC are necessary for the optimal growth of S. Typhi in the presence of one of the major bile salts found in the gut, sodium deoxycholate. The data presented establish the pivotal role of LtrR in the regulatory network of porin synthesis and reveal new genetic strategies of survival and cellular adaptation to the environment used by Salmonella.	2014 Jun	Villarreal, J M; Villarreal, JM; Villarreal; Becerra-Lobato, N; Becerra-Lobato, N; Becerra-Lobato; Rebollar-Flores, J E; Rebollar-Flores, JE; Rebollar-Flores; Medina-Aparicio, L; Medina-Aparicio, L; Medina-Aparicio; Carbajal-Gómez, E; Carbajal-Gómez, E; Carbajal-Gómez; Zavala-García, M L; Zavala-García, ML; Zavala-García; Vázquez, A; Vázquez, A; Vázquez; Gutiérrez-Ríos, R M; Gutiérrez-Ríos, RM; Gutiérrez-Ríos; Olvera, L; Olvera, L; Olvera; Encarnación, S; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Martínez-Batallar, A G; Martínez-Batallar, AG; Martínez-Batallar; Calva, E; Calva, E; Calva; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas	Mol Microbiol
24595137	Comparative genomics and immunoinformatics approach for the identification of vaccine candidates for enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli O157:H7.	Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli (EHEC) O157:H7 strains are major human food-borne pathogens, responsible for bloody diarrhea and hemolytic-uremic syndrome worldwide. Thus far, there is no vaccine for humans against EHEC infections. In this study, a comparative genomics analysis was performed to identify EHEC-specific antigens useful as potential vaccines. The genes present in both EHEC EDL933 and Sakai strains but absent in nonpathogenic E. coli K-12 and HS strains were subjected to an in silico analysis to identify secreted or surface-expressed proteins. We obtained a total of 65 gene-encoding protein candidates, which were subjected to immunoinformatics analysis. Our criteria of selection aided in categorizing the candidates as high, medium, and low priority. Three members of each group were randomly selected and cloned into pVAX-1. Candidates were pooled accordingly to their priority group and tested for immunogenicity against EHEC O157:H7 using a murine model of gastrointestinal infection. The high-priority (HP) pool, containing genes encoding a Lom-like protein (pVAX-31), a putative pilin subunit (pVAX-12), and a fragment of the type III secretion structural protein EscC (pVAX-56.2), was able to induce the production of EHEC IgG and sIgA in sera and feces. HP candidate-immunized mice displayed elevated levels of Th2 cytokines and diminished cecum colonization after wild-type challenge. Individually tested HP vaccine candidates showed that pVAX-12 and pVAX-56.2 significantly induced Th2 cytokines and production of fecal EHEC sIgA, with pVAX-56.2 reducing EHEC cecum colonization. We describe here a bioinformatics approach able to identify novel vaccine candidates potentially useful for preventing EHEC O157:H7 infections. 	2014 May	García-Angulo, Víctor A; García-Angulo, VA; García-Angulo; Kalita, Anjana; Kalita, A; Kalita; Kalita, Mridul; Kalita, M; Kalita; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Torres, Alfredo G; Torres, AG; Torres	Infect Immun
24304674	Eco-evolutionary feedbacks drive species interactions.	In the biosphere, many species live in close proximity and can thus interact in many different ways. Such interactions are dynamic and fall along a continuum between antagonism and cooperation. Because interspecies interactions are the key to understanding biological communities, it is important to know how species interactions arise and evolve. Here, we show that the feedback between ecological and evolutionary processes has a fundamental role in the emergence and dynamics of species interaction. Using a two-species artificial community, we demonstrate that ecological processes and rapid evolution interact to influence the dynamics of the symbiosis between a eukaryote (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) and a bacterium (Rhizobium etli). The simplicity of our experimental design enables an explicit statement of causality. The niche-constructing activities of the fungus were the key ecological process: it allowed the establishment of a commensal relationship that switched to ammensalism and provided the selective conditions necessary for the adaptive evolution of the bacteria. In this latter state, the bacterial population radiates into more than five genotypes that vary with respect to nutrient transport, metabolic strategies and global regulation. Evolutionary diversification of the bacterial populations has strong effects on the community; the nature of interaction subsequently switches from ammensalism to antagonism where bacteria promote yeast extinction. Our results demonstrate the importance of the evolution-to-ecology pathway in the persistence of interactions and the stability of communities. Thus, eco-evolutionary dynamics have the potential to transform the structure and functioning of ecosystems. Our results suggest that these dynamics should be considered to improve our understanding of beneficial and detrimental host-microbe interactions. 	2014 May	Andrade-Domínguez, Andrés; Andrade-Domínguez, A; Andrade-Domínguez; Salazar, Emmanuel; Salazar, E; Salazar; Vargas-Lagunas, María del Carmen; Vargas-Lagunas, Mdel C; Vargas-Lagunas; Kolter, Roberto; Kolter, R; Kolter; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación	ISME J
24558041	A bifunctional glycosyltransferase from Agrobacterium tumefaciens synthesizes monoglucosyl and glucuronosyl diacylglycerol under phosphate deprivation.	Glycolipids are mainly found in phototrophic organisms (like plants and cyanobacteria), in Gram-positive bacteria, and a few other bacterial phyla. Besides the function as bulk membrane lipids, they often play a role under phosphate deprivation as surrogates for phospholipids. The Gram-negative Agrobacterium tumefaciens accumulates four different glycolipids under phosphate deficiency, including digalactosyl diacylglycerol and glucosylgalactosyl diacylglycerol synthesized by a processive glycosyltransferase. The other two glycolipids have now been identified by mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy as monoglucosyl diacylglycerol and glucuronosyl diacylglycerol. These two lipids are synthesized by a single promiscuous glycosyltransferase encoded by the ORF atu2297, with UDP-glucose or UDP-glucuronic acid as sugar donors. The transfer of sugars differing in their chemistry is a novel feature not observed before for lipid glycosyltransferases. Furthermore, this enzyme is the first glucuronosyl diacylglycerol synthase isolated. Deletion mutants of Agrobacterium lacking monoglucosyl diacylglycerol and glucuronosyl diacylglycerol or all glycolipids are not impaired in growth or virulence during infection of tobacco leaf discs. Our data suggest that the four glycolipids and the nonphospholipid diacylglyceryl trimethylhomoserine can mutually replace each other during phosphate deprivation. This redundancy of different nonphospholipids may represent an adaptation mechanism to enhance the competitiveness in nature. 	2014 Apr	Semeniuk, Adrian; Semeniuk, A; Semeniuk; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Duda, Katarzyna; Duda, K; Duda; Hölzl, Georg; Hölzl, G; Hölzl	J Biol Chem
24790563	Chaotic multiquenching annealing applied to the protein folding problem.	The Chaotic Multiquenching Annealing algorithm (CMQA) is proposed. CMQA is a new algorithm, which is applied to protein folding problem (PFP). This algorithm is divided into three phases: (i) multiquenching phase (MQP), (ii) annealing phase (AP), and (iii) dynamical equilibrium phase (DEP). MQP enforces several stages of quick quenching processes that include chaotic functions. The chaotic functions can increase the exploration potential of solutions space of PFP. AP phase implements a simulated annealing algorithm (SA) with an exponential cooling function. MQP and AP are delimited by different ranges of temperatures; MQP is applied for a range of temperatures which goes from extremely high values to very high values; AP searches for solutions in a range of temperatures from high values to extremely low values. DEP phase finds the equilibrium in a dynamic way by applying least squares method. CMQA is tested with several instances of PFP. 	2014	Frausto-Solis, Juan; Frausto-Solis, J; Frausto-Solis; Liñan-García, Ernesto; Liñan-García, E; Liñan-García; Sánchez-Pérez, Mishael; Sánchez-Pérez, M; Sánchez-Pérez; Sánchez-Hernández, Juan Paulo; Sánchez-Hernández, JP; Sánchez-Hernández	ScientificWorldJournal
24385478	A small heat-shock protein (Hsp20) regulated by RpoS is essential for cyst desiccation resistance in Azotobacter vinelandii.	In Azotobacter vinelandii, a cyst-forming bacterium, the alternative sigma factor RpoS is essential to the formation of cysts resistant to desiccation and to synthesis of the cyst-specific lipids, alkylresorcinols. In this study, we carried out a proteome analysis of vegetative cells and cysts of A. vinelandii strain AEIV and its rpoS mutant derivative AErpoS. This analysis allowed us to identify a small heat-shock protein, Hsp20, as one of the most abundant proteins of cysts regulated by RpoS. Inactivation of hsp20 did not affect the synthesis of alkylresorcinols or the formation of cysts with WT morphology; however, the cysts formed by the hsp20 mutant strain were unable to resist desiccation. We also demonstrated that expression of hsp20 from an RpoS-independent promoter in the AErpoS mutant strain is not enough to restore the phenotype of resistance to desiccation. These results indicate that Hsp20 is essential for the resistance to desiccation of A. vinelandii cysts, probably by preventing the aggregation of proteins caused by the lack of water. To our knowledge, this is the first report of a small heat-shock protein that is essential for desiccation resistance in bacteria. 	2014 Mar	Cocotl-Yañez, Miguel; Cocotl-Yañez, M; Cocotl-Yañez; Moreno, Soledad; Moreno, S; Moreno; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; López-Pliego, Liliana; López-Pliego, L; López-Pliego; Castañeda, Miguel; Castañeda, M; Castañeda; Espín, Guadalupe; Espín, G; Espín	Microbiology (Reading)
24610838	Genome sequence of "Candidatus Walczuchella monophlebidarum" the flavobacterial endosymbiont of Llaveia axin axin (Hemiptera: Coccoidea: Monophlebidae).	Scale insects (Hemiptera: Coccoidae) constitute a very diverse group of sap-feeding insects with a large diversity of symbiotic associations with bacteria. Here, we present the complete genome sequence, metabolic reconstruction, and comparative genomics of the flavobacterial endosymbiont of the giant scale insect Llaveia axin axin. The gene repertoire of its 309,299 bp genome was similar to that of other flavobacterial insect endosymbionts though not syntenic. According to its genetic content, essential amino acid biosynthesis is likely to be the flavobacterial endosymbiont's principal contribution to the symbiotic association with its insect host. We also report the presence of a γ-proteobacterial symbiont that may be involved in waste nitrogen recycling and also has amino acid biosynthetic capabilities that may provide metabolic precursors to the flavobacterial endosymbiont. We propose "Candidatus Walczuchella monophlebidarum" as the name of the flavobacterial endosymbiont of insects from the Monophlebidae family. 	2014 Mar	Rosas-Pérez, Tania; Rosas-Pérez, T; Rosas-Pérez; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Rincón-Rosales, Reiner; Rincón-Rosales, R; Rincón-Rosales; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Genome Biol Evol
24387000	Nitrate regulates rhizobial and mycorrhizal symbiosis in common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.).	Nitrogen-limited conditions are considered to be a prerequisite for legume-rhizobial symbiosis, but the effects of nitrate-rich conditions on symbiotic status remain poorly understood. We addressed this issue by examining rhizobial (Rhizobim tropici) and arbusclar mycorrhizal (Glomus intraradices) symbiosis in Phaseolus vulgaris L. cv. Negro Jamapa under nitrate pre-incubation and continuous nitrate conditions. Our results indicate that nitrate pre-incubation, independent of the concentration, did not affect nodule development. However, the continuous supply of nitrate at high concentrations impaired nodule maturation and nodule numbers. Low nitrate conditions, in addition to positively regulating nodule number, biomass, and nitrogenase activity, also extended the span of nitrogen-fixing activity. By contrast, for arbuscular mycorrhizae, continuous 10 and 50 mmol/L nitrate increased the percent root length colonization, concomitantly reduced arbuscule size, and enhanced ammonia transport without affecting phosphate transport. Therefore, in this manuscript, we have proposed the importance of nitrate as a positive regulator in promoting both rhizobial and mycorrhizal symbiosis in the common bean. 	2014 Mar	Nanjareddy, Kalpana; Nanjareddy, K; Nanjareddy; Blanco, Lourdes; Blanco, L; Blanco; Arthikala, Manoj-Kumar; Arthikala, MK; Arthikala; Affantrange, Xochitl Alvarado; Affantrange, XA; Affantrange; Sánchez, Federico; Sánchez, F; Sánchez; Lara, Miguel; Lara, M; Lara	J Integr Plant Biol
24464102	Zn-bis-glutathionate is the best co-substrate of the monomeric phytochelatin synthase from the photosynthetic heavy metal-hyperaccumulator Euglena gracilis.	The phytochelatin synthase from photosynthetic Euglena gracilis (EgPCS) was analyzed at the transcriptional, kinetic, functional, and phylogenetic levels. Recombinant EgPCS was a monomeric enzyme able to synthesize, in the presence of Zn(2+) or Cd(2+), phytochelatin2-phytochelatin4 (PC2-PC4) using GSH or S-methyl-GS (S-methyl-glutathione), but not γ-glutamylcysteine or PC2 as a substrate. Kinetic analysis of EgPCS firmly established a two-substrate reaction mechanism for PC2 synthesis with Km values of 14-22 mM for GSH and 1.6-2.5 μM for metal-bis-glutathionate (Me-GS2). EgPCS showed the highest Vmax and catalytic efficiency with Zn-(GS)2, and was inactivated by peroxides. The EgPCS N-terminal domain showed high similarity to that of other PCSases, in which the typical catalytic core (Cys-70, His-179 and Asp-197) was identified. In contrast, the C-terminal domain showed no similarity to other PCSases. An EgPCS mutant comprising only the N-terminal 235 amino acid residues was inactive, suggesting that the C-terminal domain is essential for activity/stability. EgPCS transcription in Euglena cells was not modified by Cd(2+), whereas its heterologous expression in ycf-1 yeast cells provided resistance to Cd(2+) stress. Phylogenetic analysis of the N-terminal domain showed that EgPCS is distant from plants and other photosynthetic organisms, suggesting that it evolved independently. Although EgPCS showed typical features of PCSases (constitutive expression; conserved N-terminal domain; kinetic mechanism), it also exhibited distinct characteristics such as preference for Zn-(GS)2 over Cd-(GS)2 as a co-substrate, a monomeric structure, and ability to solely synthesize short-chain PCs, which may be involved in conferring enhanced heavy-metal resistance. 	2014 Mar	García-García, Jorge D; García-García, JD; García-García; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Saavedra, Emma; Saavedra, E; Saavedra; Pardo, Juan P; Pardo, JP; Pardo; Rodríguez-Zavala, José S; Rodríguez-Zavala, JS; Rodríguez-Zavala; Encalada, Rusely; Encalada, R; Encalada; Reyes-Prieto, Adrián; Reyes-Prieto, A; Reyes-Prieto; Mendoza-Cózatl, David G; Mendoza-Cózatl, DG; Mendoza-Cózatl; Moreno-Sánchez, Rafael; Moreno-Sánchez, R; Moreno-Sánchez	Metallomics
24576319	Proteomic identification of fucosylated haptoglobin alpha isoforms in ascitic fluids and its localization in ovarian carcinoma tissues from Mexican patients.	Ovarian cancer is the most lethal gynecologic disease due to delayed diagnosis, and ascites production is a characteristic of patients in advanced stages. The aim of this study was to perform the proteomic analysis of ascitic fluids of Mexican patients with ovarian carcinoma, in order to detect proteins with a differential expression pattern in the continuing search to identify biomarkers for this disease.	2014 Feb	Garibay-Cerdenares, Olga Lilia; Garibay-Cerdenares, OL; Garibay-Cerdenares; Hernández-Ramírez, Verónica Ivonne; Hernández-Ramírez, VI; Hernández-Ramírez; Osorio-Trujillo, Juan Carlos; Osorio-Trujillo, JC; Osorio-Trujillo; Hernández-Ortíz, Magdalena; Hernández-Ortíz, M; Hernández-Ortíz; Gallardo-Rincón, Dolores; Gallardo-Rincón, D; Gallardo-Rincón; Cantú de León, David; Cantú de León, D; Cantú de León; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Villegas-Pineda, Julio César; Villegas-Pineda, JC; Villegas-Pineda; Talamás-Rohana, Patricia; Talamás-Rohana, P; Talamás-Rohana	J Ovarian Res
24516674	Structural properties of prokaryotic promoter regions correlate with functional features.	The structural properties of the DNA molecule are known to play a critical role in transcription. In this paper, the structural profiles of promoter regions were studied within the context of their diversity and their function for eleven prokaryotic species; Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Salmonella Typhimurium, Pseudomonas auroginosa, Geobacter sulfurreducens Helicobacter pylori, Chlamydophila pneumoniae, Synechocystis sp., Synechoccocus elongates, Bacillus anthracis, and the archaea Sulfolobus solfataricus. The main anchor point for these promoter regions were transcription start sites identified through high-throughput experiments or collected within large curated databases. Prokaryotic promoter regions were found to be less stable and less flexible than the genomic mean across all studied species. However, direct comparison between species revealed differences in their structural profiles that can not solely be explained by the difference in genomic GC content. In addition, comparison with functional data revealed that there are patterns in the promoter structural profiles that can be linked to specific functional loci, such as sigma factor regulation or transcription factor binding. Interestingly, a novel structural element clearly visible near the transcription start site was found in genes associated with essential cellular functions and growth in several species. Our analyses reveals the great diversity in promoter structural profiles both between and within prokaryotic species. We observed relationships between structural diversity and functional features that are interesting prospects for further research to yet uncharacterized functional loci defined by DNA structural properties. 	2014	Meysman, Pieter; Meysman, P; Meysman; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Morett, Enrique; Morett, E; Morett; Viola, Roberto; Viola, R; Viola; Engelen, Kristof; Engelen, K; Engelen; Laukens, Kris; Laukens, K; Laukens	PLoS One
24397311	Characterization of Rhizobium grahamii extrachromosomal replicons and their transfer among rhizobia.	Rhizobium grahamii belongs to a new phylogenetic group of rhizobia together with Rhizobium mesoamericanum and other species. R. grahamii has a broad-host-range that includes Leucaena leucocephala and Phaseolus vulgaris, although it is a poor competitor for P. vulgaris nodulation in the presence of Rhizobium etli or Rhizobium phaseoli strains. This work analyzed the genome sequence and transfer properties of R. grahamii plasmids.	2014 Jan	Althabegoiti, María Julia; Althabegoiti, MJ; Althabegoiti; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Torres Tejerizo, Gonzalo; Torres Tejerizo, G; Torres Tejerizo; Rogel, Marco Antonio; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	BMC Microbiol
24400089	Regulation of copper homeostasis and biotic interactions by microRNA 398b in common bean.	MicroRNAs are recognized as important post-transcriptional regulators in plants. Information about the roles of miRNAs in common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.), an agronomically important legume, is yet scant. The objective of this work was to functionally characterize the conserved miRNA: miR398b and its target Cu/Zn Superoxide Dismutase 1 (CSD1) in common bean. We experimentally validated a novel miR398 target: the stress up-regulated Nodulin 19 (Nod19). Expression analysis of miR398b and target genes -CSD1 and Nod19- in bean roots, nodules and leaves, indicated their role in copper (Cu) homeostasis. In bean plants under Cu toxicity miR398b was decreased and Nod19 and CSD1, that participates in reactive oxygen species (ROS) detoxification, were up-regulated. The opposite regulation was observed in Cu deficient bean plants; lower levels of CSD1 would allow Cu delivery to essential Cu-containing proteins. Composite common bean plants with transgenic roots over-expressing miR398 showed ca. 20-fold higher mature miR398b and almost negligible target transcript levels as well as increased anthocyanin content and expression of Cu-stress responsive genes, when subjected to Cu deficiency. The down-regulation of miR398b with the consequent up-regulation of its targets was observed in common bean roots during the oxidative burst resulting from short-time exposure to high Cu. A similar response occurred at early stage of bean roots inoculated with Rhizobium tropici, where an increase in ROS was observed. In addition, the miR398b down-regulation and an increase in CSD1 and Nod19 were observed in bean leaves challenged with Sclerotinia scleortiorum fungal pathogen. Transient over-expression of miR398b in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves infected with S. sclerotiorum resulted in enhanced fungal lesions. We conclude that the miR398b-mediated up-regulation of CSD and Nod19 is relevant for common bean plants to cope with oxidative stress generated in abiotic and biotic stresses. 	2014	Naya, Loreto; Naya, L; Naya; Paul, Sujay; Paul, S; Paul; Valdés-López, Oswaldo; Valdés-López, O; Valdés-López; Mendoza-Soto, Ana B; Mendoza-Soto, AB; Mendoza-Soto; Nova-Franco, Bárbara; Nova-Franco, B; Nova-Franco; Sosa-Valencia, Guadalupe; Sosa-Valencia, G; Sosa-Valencia; Reyes, José L; Reyes, JL; Reyes; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	PLoS One
24214998	COLOMBOS v2.0: an ever expanding collection of bacterial expression compendia.	The COLOMBOS database (http://www.colombos.net) features comprehensive organism-specific cross-platform gene expression compendia of several bacterial model organisms and is supported by a fully interactive web portal and an extensive web API. COLOMBOS was originally published in PLoS One, and COLOMBOS v2.0 includes both an update of the expression data, by expanding the previously available compendia and by adding compendia for several new species, and an update of the surrounding functionality, with improved search and visualization options and novel tools for programmatic access to the database. The scope of the database has also been extended to incorporate RNA-seq data in our compendia by a dedicated analysis pipeline. We demonstrate the validity and robustness of this approach by comparing the same RNA samples measured in parallel using both microarrays and RNA-seq. As far as we know, COLOMBOS currently hosts the largest homogenized gene expression compendia available for seven bacterial model organisms. 	2014 Jan	Meysman, Pieter; Meysman, P; Meysman; Sonego, Paolo; Sonego, P; Sonego; Bianco, Luca; Bianco, L; Bianco; Fu, Qiang; Fu, Q; Fu; Ledezma-Tejeida, Daniela; Ledezma-Tejeida, D; Ledezma-Tejeida; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Liebens, Veerle; Liebens, V; Liebens; Michiels, Jan; Michiels, J; Michiels; Laukens, Kris; Laukens, K; Laukens; Marchal, Kathleen; Marchal, K; Marchal; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Engelen, Kristof; Engelen, K; Engelen	Nucleic Acids Res
24138283	Identification and expression profiling of Vigna mungo microRNAs from leaf small RNA transcriptome by deep sequencing.	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) represent a class of small non-coding RNA molecules that play a crucial role in post-transcriptional gene regulation. Several conserved and species-specific miRNAs have been characterized to date, predominantly from the plant species whose genome is well characterized. However, information on the variability of these regulatory RNAs in economically important but genetically less characterized crop species are limited. Vigna mungo is an important grain legume, which is grown primarily for its protein-rich edible seeds. miRNAs from this species have not been identified to date due to lack of genome sequence information. To identify miRNAs from V. mungo, a small RNA library was constructed from young leaves. High-throughput Illumina sequencing technology and bioinformatic analysis of the small RNA reads led to the identification of 66 miRNA loci represented by 45 conserved miRNAs belonging to 19 families and eight non-conserved miRNAs belonging to seven families. Besides, 13 novel miRNA candidates in V. mungo were also identified. Expression patterns of selected conserved, non-conserved, and novel miRNA candidates have been demonstrated in leaf, stem, and root tissues by quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and potential target genes were predicted for most of the conserved miRNAs. This information offers genomic resources for better understanding of miRNA mediated post-transcriptional gene regulation. 	2014 Jan	Paul, Sujay; Paul, S; Paul; Kundu, Anirban; Kundu, A; Kundu; Pal, Amita; Pal, A; Pal	J Integr Plant Biol
24187088	In silico identification and experimental characterization of regulatory elements controlling the expression of the Salmonella csrB and csrC genes.	The small RNAs CsrB and CsrC of Salmonella indirectly control the expression of numerous genes encoding widespread cellular functions, including virulence. The expression of csrB and csrC genes, which are located in different chromosomal regions, is coordinated by positive transcriptional control mediated by the two-component regulatory system BarA/SirA. Here, we identified by computational analysis an 18-bp inverted repeat (IR) sequence located far upstream from the promoter of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium csrB and csrC genes. Deletion analysis and site-directed mutagenesis of the csrB and csrC regulatory regions revealed that this IR sequence is required for transcriptional activation of both genes. Protein-DNA and protein-protein interaction assays showed that the response regulator SirA specifically binds to the IR sequence and provide evidence that SirA acts as a dimer. Interestingly, whereas the IR sequence was essential for the SirA-mediated expression of csrB, our results revealed that SirA controls the expression of csrC not only by binding to the IR sequence but also by an indirect mode involving the Csr system. Additional computational, biochemical, and genetic analyses demonstrated that the integration host factor (IHF) global regulator positively controls the expression of csrB, but not of csrC, by interacting with a sequence located between the promoter and the SirA-binding site. These findings contribute to the better understanding of the regulatory mechanism controlling the expression of CsrB and CsrC. 	2014 Jan	Martínez, Luary C; Martínez, LC; Martínez; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Fernández-Mora, Marcos; Fernández-Mora, M; Fernández-Mora; Medina-Rivera, Alejandra; Medina-Rivera, A; Medina-Rivera; Puente, José L; Puente, JL; Puente; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Bustamante, Víctor H; Bustamante, VH; Bustamante	J Bacteriol
24185856	Narrow-host-range bacteriophages that infect Rhizobium etli associate with distinct genomic types.	In this work, we isolated and characterized 14 bacteriophages that infect Rhizobium etli. They were obtained from rhizosphere soil of bean plants from agricultural lands in Mexico using an enrichment method. The host range of these phages was narrow but variable within a collection of 48 R. etli strains. We obtained the complete genome sequence of nine phages. Four phages were resistant to several restriction enzymes and in vivo cloning, probably due to nucleotide modifications. The genome size of the sequenced phages varied from 43 kb to 115 kb, with a median size of ≈ 45 to 50 kb. A large proportion of open reading frames of these phage genomes (65 to 70%) consisted of hypothetical and orphan genes. The remainder encoded proteins needed for phage morphogenesis and DNA synthesis and processing, among other functions, and a minor percentage represented genes of bacterial origin. We classified these phages into four genomic types on the basis of their genomic similarity, gene content, and host range. Since there are no reports of similar sequences, we propose that these bacteriophages correspond to novel species.	2014 Jan	Santamaría, Rosa Isela; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Sepúlveda-Robles, Omar; Sepúlveda-Robles, O; Sepúlveda-Robles; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Rodríguez, César; Rodríguez, C; Rodríguez; Fernández, José Luis; Fernández, JL; Fernández; Juárez, Soledad; Juárez, S; Juárez; Kameyama, Luis; Kameyama, L; Kameyama; Guarneros, Gabriel; Guarneros, G; Guarneros; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; González, Víctor; González, V; González	Appl Environ Microbiol
23824666	Potentiation of the synergistic activities of chitinases ChiA, ChiB and ChiC from Serratia marcescens CFFSUR-B2 by chitobiase (Chb) and chitin binding protein (CBP).	With the goal of understanding the chitinolytic mechanism of the potential biological control strain Serratia marcescens CFFSUR-B2, genes encoding chitinases ChiA, ChiB and ChiC, chitobiase (Chb) and chitin binding protein (CBP) were cloned, the protein products overexpressed in Escherichia coli as 6His-Sumo fusion proteins and purified by affinity chromatography. Following affinity tag removal, the chitinolytic activity of the recombinant proteins was evaluated individually and in combination using colloidal chitin as substrate. ChiB and ChiC were highly active while ChiA was inactive. Reactions containing both ChiB and ChiC showed significantly increased N-acetylglucosamine trimer and dimer formation, but decreased monomer formation, compared to reactions with either enzyme alone. This suggests that while both ChiB and ChiC have a general affinity for the same substrate, they attack different sites and together degrade chitin more efficiently than either enzyme separately. Chb and CBP in combination with ChiB and ChiC (individually or together) increased their chitinase activity. We report for the first time the potentiating effect of Chb on the activity of the chitinases and the synergistic activity of a mixture of all five proteins (the three chitinases, Chb and CBP). These results contribute to our understanding of the mechanism of action of the chitinases produced by strain CFFSUR-B2 and provide a molecular basis for its high potential as a biocontrol agent against fungal pathogens. 	2014 Jan	Gutiérrez-Román, Martha Ingrid; Gutiérrez-Román, MI; Gutiérrez-Román; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Tinoco-Valencia, Raunel; Tinoco-Valencia, R; Tinoco-Valencia; Holguín-Meléndez, Francisco; Holguín-Meléndez, F; Holguín-Meléndez; Huerta-Palacios, Graciela; Huerta-Palacios, G; Huerta-Palacios; Guillén-Navarro, Karina; Guillén-Navarro, K; Guillén-Navarro	World J Microbiol Biotechnol
25468217	Whole genome de novo assemblies of three  divergent strains of rice, Oryza sativa, document  novel gene space of aus and indica.	The use of high throughput genome-sequencing technologies has uncovered a large extent of structural variation in eukaryotic genomes that makes important contributions to genomic diversity and phenotypic variation. When the genomes of different strains of a given organism are compared, whole genome resequencing data are typically aligned to an established reference sequence. However, when the reference differs in significant structural ways from the individuals under study, the analysis is often incomplete or inaccurate.	2014	Schatz, Michael C; Schatz, MC; Schatz; Maron, Lyza G; Maron, LG; Maron; Stein, Joshua C; Stein, JC; Stein; Hernandez Wences, Alejandro; Hernandez Wences, A; Hernandez Wences; Gurtowski, James; Gurtowski, J; Gurtowski; Biggers, Eric; Biggers, E; Biggers; Lee, Hayan; Lee, H; Lee; Kramer, Melissa; Kramer, M; Kramer; Antoniou, Eric; Antoniou, E; Antoniou; Ghiban, Elena; Ghiban, E; Ghiban; Wright, Mark H; Wright, MH; Wright; Chia, Jer-ming; Chia, JM; Chia; Ware, Doreen; Ware, D; Ware; McCouch, Susan R; McCouch, SR; McCouch; McCombie, W Richard; McCombie, WR; McCombie	Genome Biol
24060999	A proteomic approach of pediatric astrocytomas: MiRNAs and network insight.	Pediatric astrocytomas, a leading cause of death associated with cancer, are the most common primary central nervous system tumors found in children. Most studies of these tumors focus on adults, not on children. We examined the global protein and microRNA expression pattern by 2D SDS-PAGE, mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF), and RT(2) miRNA PCR Array System. Proteomic studies revealed 49 proteins with changes on the expression. Interactome showed that vimentin, calreticulin, and 14-3-3 epsilon protein are hub proteins in these neoplasms. MicroRNA analyses demonstrated for the first time novel microRNAs involved in the astrocytoma biology. In conclusion, our results show that novel proteins and microRNAs with expression changes on pediatric astrocytoma could serve as biomarkers of tumor progression.	2013 Dec	Ruiz Esparza-Garrido, Ruth; Ruiz Esparza-Garrido, R; Ruiz Esparza-Garrido; Velázquez-Flores, Miguel Á; Velázquez-Flores, MÁ; Velázquez-Flores; Diegopérez-Ramírez, Jaime; Diegopérez-Ramírez, J; Diegopérez-Ramírez; López-Aguilar, Enrique; López-Aguilar, E; López-Aguilar; Siordia-Reyes, Georgina; Siordia-Reyes, G; Siordia-Reyes; Hernández-Ortiz, Magdalena; Hernández-Ortiz, M; Hernández-Ortiz; Martínez-Batallar, Angel G; Martínez-Batallar, AG; Martínez-Batallar; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Salamanca-Gómez, Fabio; Salamanca-Gómez, F; Salamanca-Gómez; Arenas-Aranda, Diego Julio; Arenas-Aranda, DJ; Arenas-Aranda	J Proteomics
24057982	Burkholderia caballeronis sp. nov., a nitrogen fixing species isolated from tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) with the ability to effectively nodulate Phaseolus vulgaris.	During a survey of Burkholderia species with potential use in agrobiotechnology, a group of 12 strains was isolated from the rhizosphere and rhizoplane of tomato plants growing in Mexico (Nepantla, Mexico State). A phylogenetic analysis of 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that the strains are related to Burkholderia kururiensis and Burkholderia mimosarum (97.4 and 97.1 %, respectively). However, they induced effective nitrogen-fixing nodules on roots of Phaseolus vulgaris. Based on polyphasic taxonomy, the group of strains represents a novel species for which the name Burkholderia caballeronis sp. nov. is proposed. The type species is TNe-841(T) (= LMG 26416(T) = CIP 110324(T)).	2013 Dec	Martínez-Aguilar, Lourdes; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar; Salazar-Salazar, Corelly; Salazar-Salazar, C; Salazar-Salazar; Méndez, Rafael Díaz; Méndez, RD; Méndez; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Hirsch, Ann M; Hirsch, AM; Hirsch; Vásquez-Murrieta, María Soledad; Vásquez-Murrieta, MS; Vásquez-Murrieta; Estrada-de los Santos, Paulina; Estrada-de los Santos, P; Estrada-de los Santos	Antonie Van Leeuwenhoek
23327937	Evidence classification of high-throughput protocols and confidence integration in RegulonDB.	RegulonDB provides curated information on the transcriptional regulatory network of Escherichia coli and contains both experimental data and computationally predicted objects. To account for the heterogeneity of these data, we introduced in version 6.0, a two-tier rating system for the strength of evidence, classifying evidence as either 'weak' or 'strong' (Gama-Castro,S., Jimenez-Jacinto,V., Peralta-Gil,M. et al. RegulonDB (Version 6.0): gene regulation model of Escherichia Coli K-12 beyond transcription, active (experimental) annotated promoters and textpresso navigation. Nucleic Acids Res., 2008;36:D120-D124.). We now add to our classification scheme the classification of high-throughput evidence, including chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and RNA-seq technologies. To integrate these data into RegulonDB, we present two strategies for the evaluation of confidence, statistical validation and independent cross-validation. Statistical validation involves verification of ChIP data for transcription factor-binding sites, using tools for motif discovery and quality assessment of the discovered matrices. Independent cross-validation combines independent evidence with the intention to mutually exclude false positives. Both statistical validation and cross-validation allow to upgrade subsets of data that are supported by weak evidence to a higher confidence level. Likewise, cross-validation of strong confidence data extends our two-tier rating system to a three-tier system by introducing a third confidence score 'confirmed'. Database URL: http://regulondb.ccg.unam.mx/	2013	Weiss, Verena; Weiss, V; Weiss; Medina-Rivera, Alejandra; Medina-Rivera, A; Medina-Rivera; Huerta, Araceli M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Morett, Enrique; Morett, E; Morett; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Database (Oxford)
24096415	GET_HOMOLOGUES, a versatile software package for scalable and robust microbial pangenome analysis.	GET_HOMOLOGUES is an open-source software package that builds on popular orthology-calling approaches making highly customizable and detailed pangenome analyses of microorganisms accessible to nonbioinformaticians. It can cluster homologous gene families using the bidirectional best-hit, COGtriangles, or OrthoMCL clustering algorithms. Clustering stringency can be adjusted by scanning the domain composition of proteins using the HMMER3 package, by imposing desired pairwise alignment coverage cutoffs, or by selecting only syntenic genes. The resulting homologous gene families can be made even more robust by computing consensus clusters from those generated by any combination of the clustering algorithms and filtering criteria. Auxiliary scripts make the construction, interrogation, and graphical display of core genome and pangenome sets easy to perform. Exponential and binomial mixture models can be fitted to the data to estimate theoretical core genome and pangenome sizes, and high-quality graphics can be generated. Furthermore, pangenome trees can be easily computed and basic comparative genomics performed to identify lineage-specific genes or gene family expansions. The software is designed to take advantage of modern multiprocessor personal computers as well as computer clusters to parallelize time-consuming tasks. To demonstrate some of these capabilities, we survey a set of 50 Streptococcus genomes annotated in the Orthologous Matrix (OMA) browser as a benchmark case. The package can be downloaded at http://www.eead.csic.es/compbio/soft/gethoms.php and http://maya.ccg.unam.mx/soft/gethoms.php. 	2013 Dec	Contreras-Moreira, Bruno; Contreras-Moreira, B; Contreras-Moreira; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa	Appl Environ Microbiol
24077251	Phylogenomic analysis of Cation Diffusion Facilitator proteins uncovers Ni2+/Co2+ transporters.	The ubiquitous Cation Diffusion Facilitator proteins (CDF) play a key role in maintaining the cellular homeostasis of essential metal ions. Previous neighbor-joining phylogenetic analysis classified CDF proteins into three substrate-defined groups: Zn(2+), Fe(2+)/Zn(2+) and Mn(2+). These studies were unable to discern substrate-defined clades for Ni(2+), Co(2+), Cd(2+) and Cu(2+) transporters, despite their existence in this family. In this study we improved the accuracy of this previous functional classification using a phylogenomic approach based on a thorough maximum-likelihood phylogeny and the inclusion of recently characterized CDF transporters. The inference of CDF protein function predicted novel clades for Zn(2+), Fe(2+), Cd(2+) and Mn(2+). The Ni(2+)/Co(2+) and Co(2+) substrate specificities of two clades containing uncharacterized proteins were defined through the functional characterization of nepA and cepA metal inducible genes which independently conferred Ni(2+) and Co(2+) resistances to Rhizobium etli CFN42 and increased, respectively, Ni(2+)/Co(2+) and Co(2+) resistances to Escherichia coli. Neither NepA nor CepA confer Zn(2+), Fe(2+) and Mn(2+) resistances. The ability of NepA to confer Ni(2+)/Co(2+) resistance is dependent on clade-specific residues Asn(88) and Arg(197) whose mutations produce a non-functional protein.	2013 Dec	Cubillas, Ciro; Cubillas, C; Cubillas; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Tabche, Maria Luisa; Tabche, ML; Tabche; García-de los Santos, Alejandro; García-de los Santos, A; García-de los Santos	Metallomics
24262067	Conjugative transfer of an IncA/C plasmid-borne blaCMY-2 gene through genetic re-arrangements with an IncX1 plasmid.	Our observation that in the Mexican Salmonella Typhimurium population none of the ST19 and ST213 strains harbored both the Salmonella virulence plasmid (pSTV) and the prevalent IncA/C plasmid (pA/C) led us to hypothesize that restriction to horizontal transfer of these plasmids existed. We designed a conjugation scheme using ST213 strain YU39 as donor of the blaCMY-2 gene (conferring resistance to ceftriaxone; CRO) carried by pA/C, and two E. coli lab strains (DH5α and HB101) and two Typhimurium ST19 strains (SO1 and LT2) carrying pSTV as recipients. The aim of this study was to determine if the genetic background of the different recipient strains affected the transfer frequencies of pA/C.	2013 Nov	Wiesner, Magdalena; Wiesner, M; Wiesner; Fernández-Mora, Marcos; Fernández-Mora, M; Fernández-Mora; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Zavala-Alvarado, Crispín; Zavala-Alvarado, C; Zavala-Alvarado; Zaidi, Mussaret B; Zaidi, MB; Zaidi; Calva, Edmundo; Calva, E; Calva; Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva	BMC Microbiol
24237659	Lessons from the modular organization of the transcriptional regulatory network of Bacillus subtilis.	The regulation of gene expression at the transcriptional level is a fundamental process in prokaryotes. Among the different kind of mechanisms modulating gene transcription, the one based on DNA binding transcription factors, is the most extensively studied and the results, for a great number of model organisms, have been compiled making it possible the in silico construction of their corresponding transcriptional regulatory networks and the analysis of the biological relationships of the components of these intricate networks, that allows to elucidate the significant aspects of their organization and evolution.	2013 Nov	Freyre-González, Julio A; Freyre-González, JA; Freyre-González; Manjarrez-Casas, Alejandra M; Manjarrez-Casas, AM; Manjarrez-Casas; Merino, Enrique; Merino, E; Merino; Martinez-Nuñez, Mario; Martinez-Nuñez, M; Martinez-Nuñez; Perez-Rueda, Ernesto; Perez-Rueda, E; Perez-Rueda; Gutiérrez-Ríos, Rosa-María; Gutiérrez-Ríos, RM; Gutiérrez-Ríos	BMC Syst Biol
24016735	RepA and RepB exert plasmid incompatibility repressing the transcription of the repABC operon.	Rhizobium etli CFN42 has a multipartite genome composed of one chromosome and six large plasmids with low copy numbers, all belonging to the repABC plasmid family. All elements essential for replication and segregation of these plasmids are encoded within the repABC operon. RepA and RepB direct plasmid segregation and are involved in the transcriptional regulation of the operon, and RepC is the initiator protein of the plasmid. Here we show that in addition to RepA (repressor) and RepB (corepressor), full transcriptional repression of the operon located in the symbiotic plasmid (pRetCFN42d) of this strain requires parS, the centromere-like sequence, and the operator sequence. However, the co-expression of RepA and RepB is sufficient to induce the displacement of the parental plasmid. RepA is a Walker-type ATPase that self associates in vivo and in vitro and binds specifically to the operator region in its RepA-ADP form. In contrast, RepA-ATP is capable of binding to non-specific DNA. RepA and RepB form high molecular weight DNA-protein complexes in the presence of ATP and ADP. RepA carrying ATP-pocket motif mutations induce full repression of the repABC operon without the participation of RepB and parS. These mutants specifically bind the operator sequence in their ATP or ADP bound forms. In addition, their expression in trans exerts plasmid incompatibility against the parental plasmid. RepA and RepB expressed in trans induce plasmid incompatibility because of their ability to repress the repABC operon and not only by their capacity to distort the plasmid segregation process. 	2013 Nov	Pérez-Oseguera, Angeles; Pérez-Oseguera, A; Pérez-Oseguera; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	Plasmid
23771622	Rhizobium freirei sp. nov., a symbiont of Phaseolus vulgaris that is very effective at fixing nitrogen.	Common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) can establish symbiotic associations with several Rhizobium species; however, the effectiveness of most strains at fixing nitrogen under field conditions is very low. PRF 81(T) is a very effective strain, usually referred to as Rhizobium tropici and used successfully in thousands of doses of commercial inoculants for the common bean crop in Brazil; it has shown high rates of nitrogen fixation in all areas representative of the crop in the country. Here, we present results that indicate that PRF 81(T), although it belongs to the 'R. tropici group', which includes 10 Rhizobium species, R. tropici, R. leucaenae, R. lusitanum, R. multihospitium, R. miluonense, R. hainanense, R. calliandrae, R. mayense, R. jaguaris and R. rhizogenes, represents a novel species. Several morpho-physiological traits differentiated PRF 81(T) from related species. Differences were also confirmed in the analysis of rep-PCR (sharing less than 45 % similarity with the other species), MLSA with recA, atpD and rpoB genes, and DNA-DNA hybridization. The novel species, for which we propose the name Rhizobium freirei sp. nov., is able to establish effective root nodule symbioses with Phaseolus vulgaris, Leucaena leucocephala, Leucaena esculenta, Crotalaria juncea and Macroptilium atropurpureum. The type strain is PRF 81(T) ( = CNPSo 122(T) = SEMIA 4080(T) = IPR-Pv81(T) = WDCM 440(T)). 	2013 Nov	Dall'Agnol, Rebeca Fuzinatto; Dall'Agnol, RF; Dall'Agnol; Ribeiro, Renan Augusto; Ribeiro, RA; Ribeiro; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Rogel, Marco Antonio; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Delamuta, Jakeline Renata Marçon; Delamuta, JRM; Delamuta; Andrade, Diva Souza; Andrade, DS; Andrade; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Hungria, Mariangela; Hungria, M; Hungria	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
23432573	Transcript profiling of common bean nodules subjected to oxidative stress.	Several environmental stresses generate high amounts of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in plant cells, resulting in oxidative stress. Symbiotic nitrogen fixation (SNF) in the legume-rhizobia symbiosis is sensitive to damage from oxidative stress. Active nodules of the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) exposed to the herbicide paraquat (1,1'-dimethyl-4,4'-bipyridinium dichloride hydrate), which stimulates ROS accumulation, exhibited reduced nitrogenase activity and ureide content. We analyzed the global gene response of nodules subjected to oxidative stress using the Bean Custom Array 90K, which includes probes from 30,000 expressed sequence tags (ESTs). A total of 4280 ESTs were differentially expressed in stressed bean nodules; of these, 2218 were repressed. Based on Gene Ontology analysis, these genes were grouped into 42 different biological process categories. Analysis with the PathExpress bioinformatic tool, adapted for bean, identified five significantly repressed metabolic pathways related to carbon/nitrogen metabolism, which is crucial for nodule function. Quantitative reverse transcription (qRT)-PCR analysis of transcription factor (TF) gene expression showed that 67 TF genes were differentially expressed in nodules exposed to oxidative stress. Putative cis-elements recognized by highly responsive TF were detected in promoter regions of oxidative stress regulated genes. The expression of oxidative stress responsive genes and of genes important for SNF in bacteroids analyzed in stressed nodules revealed that these conditions elicited a transcriptional response.	2013 Nov	Ramírez, Mario; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Guillén, Gabriel; Guillén, G; Guillén; Fuentes, Sara I; Fuentes, SI; Fuentes; Iñiguez, Luis P; Iñiguez, LP; Iñiguez; Aparicio-Fabre, Rosaura; Aparicio-Fabre, R; Aparicio-Fabre; Zamorano-Sánchez, David; Zamorano-Sánchez, D; Zamorano-Sánchez; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Panzeri, Dario; Panzeri, D; Panzeri; Castiglioni, Bianca; Castiglioni, B; Castiglioni; Cremonesi, Paola; Cremonesi, P; Cremonesi; Strozzi, Francesco; Strozzi, F; Strozzi; Stella, Alessandra; Stella, A; Stella; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Sparvoli, Francesca; Sparvoli, F; Sparvoli; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	Physiol Plant
24288657	Identification of putative ortholog gene blocks involved in gestant and lactating mammary gland development: a rodent cross-species microarray transcriptomics approach.	The mammary gland (MG) undergoes functional and metabolic changes during the transition from pregnancy to lactation, possibly by regulation of conserved genes. The objective was to elucidate orthologous genes, chromosome clusters and putative conserved transcriptional modules during MG development. We analyzed expression of 22,000 transcripts using murine microarrays and RNA samples of MG from virgin, pregnant, and lactating rats by cross-species hybridization. We identified 521 transcripts differentially expressed; upregulated in early (78%) and midpregnancy (89%) and early lactation (64%), but downregulated in mid-lactation (61%). Putative orthologous genes were identified. We mapped the altered genes to orthologous chromosomal locations in human and mouse. Eighteen sets of conserved genes associated with key cellular functions were revealed and conserved transcription factor binding site search entailed possible coregulation among all eight block sets of genes. This study demonstrates that the use of heterologous array hybridization for screening of orthologous gene expression from rat revealed sets of conserved genes arranged in chromosomal order implicated in signaling pathways and functional ontology. Results demonstrate the utilization power of comparative genomics and prove the feasibility of using rodent microarrays to identification of putative coexpressed orthologous genes involved in the control of human mammary gland development. 	2013	Rodríguez-Cruz, Maricela; Rodríguez-Cruz, M; Rodríguez-Cruz; Coral-Vázquez, Ramón M; Coral-Vázquez, RM; Coral-Vázquez; Hernández-Stengele, Gabriel; Hernández-Stengele, G; Hernández-Stengele; Sánchez, Raúl; Sánchez, R; Sánchez; Salazar, Emmanuel; Salazar, E; Salazar; Sanchez-Muñoz, Fausto; Sanchez-Muñoz, F; Sanchez-Muñoz; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Ramírez-Salcedo, Jorge; Ramírez-Salcedo, J; Ramírez-Salcedo	Int J Genomics
23935046	Characterization of IntA, a bidirectional site-specific recombinase required for conjugative transfer of the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium etli CFN42.	Site-specific recombination occurs at short specific sequences, mediated by the cognate recombinases. IntA is a recombinase from Rhizobium etli CFN42 and belongs to the tyrosine recombinase family. It allows cointegration of plasmid p42a and the symbiotic plasmid via site-specific recombination between attachment regions (attA and attD) located in each replicon. Cointegration is needed for conjugative transfer of the symbiotic plasmid. To characterize this system, two plasmids harboring the corresponding attachment sites and intA were constructed. Introduction of these plasmids into R. etli revealed IntA-dependent recombination events occurring at high frequency. Interestingly, IntA promotes not only integration, but also excision events, albeit at a lower frequency. Thus, R. etli IntA appears to be a bidirectional recombinase. IntA was purified and used to set up electrophoretic mobility shift assays with linear fragments containing attA and attD. IntA-dependent retarded complexes were observed only with fragments containing either attA or attD. Specific retarded complexes, as well as normal in vivo recombination abilities, were seen even in derivatives harboring only a minimal attachment region (comprising the 5-bp central region flanked by 9- to 11-bp inverted repeats). DNase I-footprinting assays with IntA revealed specific protection of these zones. Mutations that disrupt the integrity of the 9- to 11-bp inverted repeats abolish both specific binding and recombination ability, while mutations in the 5-bp central region severely reduce both binding and recombination. These results show that IntA is a bidirectional recombinase that binds to att regions without requiring neighboring sequences as enhancers of recombination. 	2013 Oct	Hernández-Tamayo, Rogelio; Hernández-Tamayo, R; Hernández-Tamayo; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Puente, José Luis; Puente, JL; Puente; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero	J Bacteriol
23504968	Polyphasic evidence supporting the reclassification of Bradyrhizobium japonicum group Ia strains as Bradyrhizobium diazoefficiens sp. nov.	Bradyrhizobium japonicum was described from soybean root-nodule bacterial isolates. Since its description, several studies have revealed heterogeneities among rhizobia assigned to this species. Strains assigned to B. japonicum group Ia have been isolated in several countries, and many of them are outstanding soybean symbionts used in inoculants worldwide, but they have also been isolated from other legume hosts. Here, we summarize published studies that indicate that group Ia strains are different from the B. japonicum type strain USDA 6(T) and closely related strains, and present new morphophysiological, genotypic and genomic evidence to support their reclassification into a novel species, for which the name Bradyrhizobium diazoefficiens sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain of the novel species is the well-studied strain USDA 110(T) ( =IAM 13628(T)  =CCRC 13528(T)  =NRRL B-4361(T)  =NRRL B-4450(T)  =TAL 102(T)  =BCRC 13528(T)  =JCM 10833(T)  =TISTR 339(T)  =SEMIA 5032(T)  =3I1B110(T)  =ACCC 15034(T)  =CCT 4249(T)  = NBRC 14792(T)  = R-12974(T)  = CNPSo 46(T)).	2013 Sep	Delamuta, Jakeline Renata Marçon; Delamuta, JRM; Delamuta; Ribeiro, Renan Augusto; Ribeiro, RA; Ribeiro; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Melo, Itamar Soares; Melo, IS; Melo; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Hungria, Mariangela; Hungria, M; Hungria	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
23584283	Rhizobium calliandrae sp. nov., Rhizobium mayense sp. nov. and Rhizobium jaguaris sp. nov., rhizobial species nodulating the medicinal legume Calliandra grandiflora.	Calliandra grandiflora has been used as a medicinal plant for thousands of years in Mexico. Rhizobial strains were obtained from root nodules of C. grandiflora collected from different geographical regions in Chiapas and characterized by BOX-PCR, amplified rDNA restriction analysis (ARDRA) and 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis. Most isolates corresponded to members of the genus Rhizobium and those not related to species with validly published names were further characterized by recA, atpD, rpoB and nifH gene phylogenies, phenotypic and DNA-DNA hybridization analyses. Three novel related species of the genus Rhizobium within the 'Rhizobium tropici group' share the same symbiovar that may be named sv. calliandrae. The names proposed for the three novel species are Rhizobium calliandrae sp. nov. (type strain, CCGE524(T) =ATCC BAA-2435(T) =CIP 110456(T) =LBP2-1(T)), Rhizobium mayense sp. nov. (type strain, CCGE526(T) =ATCC BAA-2446(T) = CIP 110454(T) =NSJP1-1(T)) and Rhizobium jaguaris sp. nov. (type strain, CCGE525(T) =ATCC BAA-2445(T) =CIP 110453(T) =SJP1-2(T)).	2013 Sep	Rincón-Rosales, Reiner; Rincón-Rosales, R; Rincón-Rosales; Villalobos-Escobedo, José M; Villalobos-Escobedo, JM; Villalobos-Escobedo; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Martinez, Julio; Martinez, J; Martinez; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
24396271	Anti-Sigma Factors in E. coli: Common Regulatory Mechanisms Controlling Sigma Factors Availability.	In bacteria, transcriptional regulation is a key step in cellular gene expression. All bacteria contain a core RNA polymerase that is catalytically competent but requires an additional σ factor for specific promoter recognition and correct transcriptional initiation. The RNAP core is not able to selectively bind to a given σ factor. In contrast, different σ factors have different affinities for the RNAP core. As a consequence, the concentration of alternate σ factors requires strict regulation in order to properly control the delicate interplay among them, which favors the competence for the RNAP core. This control is archived by different σ/anti-σ controlling mechanisms that shape complex regulatory networks and cascades, and enable the response to sudden environmental cues, whose global understanding is a current challenge for systems biology. Although there have been a number of excellent studies on each of these σ/anti-σ post-transcriptional regulatory systems, no comprehensive comparison of these mechanisms in a single model organism has been conducted. Here, we survey all these systems in E. coli dissecting and analyzing their inner workings and highlightin their differences. Then, following an integral approach, we identify their commonalities and outline some of the principles exploited by the cell to effectively and globally reprogram the transcriptional machinery. These principles provide guidelines for developing biological synthetic circuits enabling an efficient and robust response to sudden stimuli. 	2013 Sep	Treviño-Quintanilla, Luis Gerardo; Treviño-Quintanilla, LG; Treviño-Quintanilla; Freyre-González, Julio Augusto; Freyre-González, JA; Freyre-González; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores	Curr Genomics
23764913	Novel Rhizobium lineages isolated from root nodules of the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) in Andean and Mesoamerican areas.	The taxonomic affiliations of nineteen root-nodule bacteria isolated from the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) in Mexico, Ecuador and Brazil were investigated by analyses of 16S rRNA and of four protein-coding housekeeping genes. One strain from Mexico could be assigned to Rhizobium etli and two from Brazil to Rhizobium leucaenae, whereas another from Mexico corresponded to a recently described bean-nodulating species-level lineage related to R. etli and Rhizobium phaseoli. Ten strains isolated in Ecuador and Mexico corresponded to three novel Rhizobium lineages that fall into the R. phaseoli/R. etli/Rhizobium leguminosarum clade. One of those lineages, with representatives isolated mostly from Ecuador, seems to be dominant in beans from that Andean region. Only one of the Mexican strains clustered within the Rhizobium tropici clade, but as an independent lineage. Interestingly, four strains were affiliated with species within the Rhizobium radiobacter clade. The existence of yet non-described native Rhizobium lineages in both the Andean and Mesoamerican areas is discussed in relation to common-bean diversity and environmental conditions.	2013 Sep	Ribeiro, Renan Augusto; Ribeiro, RA; Ribeiro; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Dall'Agnol, Rebeca Fuzinatto; Dall'Agnol, RF; Dall'Agnol; Graham, Peter H; Graham, PH; Graham; Martinez-Romero, Esperanza; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Hungria, Mariangela; Hungria, M; Hungria	Res Microbiol
23507492	Characterization of Streptomyces isolates causing colour changes of mural paintings in ancient Egyptian tombs.	Paintings in ancient Egyptian tombs often suffer colour changes due to microbial growth and colonization. Streptomyces strains were isolated from mural paintings of Tell Basta and Tanis tombs (East of Nile Delta, Egypt) and were identified using biochemical and molecular methods. The16S rDNA sequences data indicated that isolated strains were closely related to S. coelicolor, S. albidofuscus, S. ambofaciens, S. canarius, S. parvullus, S. corchorusii, S. albidofuscus and S. nigrifaciens. It could be shown that Streptomyces strains are involved on a large scale in the colour changes of paintings and stone support by producing a wide range of metabolites such as acids (oxalic, citric and sulphuric acids), biopigments of melanin, carotenoids, and hydrogen sulphide.	2013 Aug	Abdel-Haliem, M E F; Abdel-Haliem, ME; Abdel-Haliem; Sakr, A A; Sakr, AA; Sakr; Ali, M F; Ali, MF; Ali; Ghaly, M F; Ghaly, MF; Ghaly; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	Microbiol Res
23680857	Identification of volatile compounds produced by the bacterium Burkholderia tropica that inhibit the growth of fungal pathogens.	It has been documented that bacteria from the Burkholderia genera produce different kinds of compounds that inhibit plant pathogens, however in Burkholderia tropica, an endophytic diazotrophic and phosphate-solubilizing bacterium isolated from a wide diversity of plants, the capacity to produce antifungal compounds has not been evaluated. In order to expand our knowledge about Burkholderia tropica as a potential biological control agent, we analyzed 15 different strains of this bacterium to evaluate their capacities to inhibit the growth of four phytopathogenic fungi, Colletotrichum gloeosporioides, Fusarium culmorum, Fusarium oxysporum and Sclerotium rolffsi. Diverse analytical techniques, including plant root protection and dish plate growth assays and gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy showed that the fungal growth inhibition was intimately associated with the volatile compounds produced by B. tropica and, in particular, two bacterial strains (MTo293 and TTe203) exhibited the highest radial mycelial growth inhibition. Morphological changes associated with these compounds, such as disruption of fungal hyphae, were identified by using photomicrographic analysis. By using gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy technique, 18 volatile compounds involved in the growth inhibition mechanism were identified, including α-pinene and limonene. In addition, we found a high proportion of bacterial strains that produced siderophores during growth with different carbon sources, such as alanine and glutamic acid; however, their roles in the antagonism mechanism remain unclear. 	2013 Jul-Aug	Tenorio-Salgado, Silvia; Tenorio-Salgado, S; Tenorio-Salgado; Tinoco, Raunel; Tinoco, R; Tinoco; Vazquez-Duhalt, Rafael; Vazquez-Duhalt, R; Vazquez-Duhalt; Caballero-Mellado, Jesus; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Perez-Rueda, Ernesto; Perez-Rueda, E; Perez-Rueda	Bioengineered
23525792	Nitrogen-fixing and uricolytic bacteria associated with the gut of Dendroctonus rhizophagus and Dendroctonus valens (Curculionidae: Scolytinae).	The bark beetles of the genus Dendroctonus feed on phloem that is a nitrogen-limited source. Nitrogen fixation and nitrogen recycling may compensate or alleviate such a limitation, and beetle-associated bacteria capable of such processes were identified. Raoultella terrigena, a diazotrophic bacteria present in the gut of Dendroctonus rhizophagus and D. valens, exhibited high acetylene reduction activity in vitro with different carbon sources, and its nifH and nifD genes were sequenced. Bacteria able to recycle uric acid were Pseudomonas fluorescens DVL3A that used it as carbon and nitrogen source, Serratia proteomaculans 2A CDF and Rahnella aquatilis 6-DR that used uric acid as sole nitrogen source. Also, this is the first report about the uric acid content in whole eggs, larvae, and adults (male and female) samples of the red turpentine beetle (Dendroctonus valens). Our results suggest that the gut bacteria of these bark beetles could contribute to insect N balance.	2013 Jul	Morales-Jiménez, Jesús; Morales-Jiménez, J; Morales-Jiménez; Vera-Ponce de León, Arturo; Vera-Ponce de León, A; Vera-Ponce de León; García-Domínguez, Aidé; García-Domínguez, A; García-Domínguez; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Zúñiga, Gerardo; Zúñiga, G; Zúñiga; Hernández-Rodríguez, César; Hernández-Rodríguez, C; Hernández-Rodríguez	Microb Ecol
23404651	Phylogenetic analysis of burkholderia species by multilocus sequence analysis.	Burkholderia comprises more than 60 species of environmental, clinical, and agro-biotechnological relevance. Previous phylogenetic analyses of 16S rRNA, recA, gyrB, rpoB, and acdS gene sequences as well as genome sequence comparisons of different Burkholderia species have revealed two major species clusters. In this study, we undertook a multilocus sequence analysis of 77 type and reference strains of Burkholderia using atpD, gltB, lepA, and recA genes in combination with the 16S rRNA gene sequence and employed maximum likelihood and neighbor-joining criteria to test this further. The phylogenetic analysis revealed, with high supporting values, distinct lineages within the genus Burkholderia. The two large groups were named A and B, whereas the B. rhizoxinica/B. endofungorum, and B. andropogonis groups consisted of two and one species, respectively. The group A encompasses several plant-associated and saprophytic bacterial species. The group B comprises the B. cepacia complex (opportunistic human pathogens), the B. pseudomallei subgroup, which includes both human and animal pathogens, and an assemblage of plant pathogenic species. The distinct lineages present in Burkholderia suggest that each group might represent a different genus. However, it will be necessary to analyze the full set of Burkholderia species and explore whether enough phenotypic features exist among the different clusters to propose that these groups should be considered separate genera.	2013 Jul	Estrada-de los Santos, Paulina; Estrada-de los Santos, P; Estrada-de los Santos; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Martínez-Aguilar, Lourdes; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar; Hirsch, Ann M; Hirsch, AM; Hirsch; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	Curr Microbiol
23583844	The calcium-stimulated lipid A 3-O deacylase from Rhizobium etli is not essential for plant nodulation.	The lipid A component of lipopolysaccharide from the nitrogen-fixing plant endosymbiont, Rhizobium etli, is structurally very different from that found in most enteric bacteria. The lipid A from free-living R. etli is structurally heterogeneous and exists as a mixture of species which are either pentaacylated or tetraacylated. In contrast, the lipid A from R. etli bacteroids is reported to consist exclusively of tetraacylated lipid A species. The tetraacylated lipid A species in both cases lack a β-hydroxymyristoyl chain at the 3-position of lipid A. Here, we show that the lipid A modification enzyme responsible for 3-O deacylation in R. etli is a homolog of the PagL protein originally described in Salmonella enterica sv. typhimurium. In contrast to the PagL proteins described from other species, R. etli PagL displays a calcium dependency. To determine the importance of the lipid A modification catalyzed by PagL, we isolated and characterized a R. etli mutant deficient in the pagL gene. Mass spectrometric analysis confirmed that the mutant strain was exclusively tetraacylated and radiochemical analysis revealed that 3-O deacylase activity was absent in membranes prepared from the mutant. The R. etli mutant was not impaired in its ability to form nitrogen-fixing nodules on Phaseolus vulgaris but it displayed slower nodulation kinetics relative to the wild-type strain. The lipid A modification catalyzed by R. etli PagL, therefore, is not required for nodulation but may play other roles such as protecting bacterial endosymbionts from plant immune responses during infection.	2012 Jul	Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Raetz, Christian R H; Raetz, CR; Raetz; Ingram, Brian O; Ingram, BO; Ingram	Biochim Biophys Acta
23805147	A re-sequencing based assessment of genomic heterogeneity and fast neutron-induced deletions in a common bean cultivar.	A small fast neutron (FN) mutant population has been established from Phaseolus vulgaris cv. Red Hawk. We leveraged the available P. vulgaris genome sequence and high throughput next generation DNA sequencing to examine the genomic structure of five P. vulgaris cv. Red Hawk FN mutants with striking visual phenotypes. Analysis of these genomes identified three classes of structural variation (SV); between cultivar variation, natural variation within the FN mutant population, and FN induced mutagenesis. Our analyses focused on the latter two classes. We identified 23 large deletions (>40 bp) common to multiple individuals, illustrating residual heterogeneity and regions of SV within the common bean cv. Red Hawk. An additional 18 large deletions were identified in individual mutant plants. These deletions, ranging in size from 40 bp to 43,000 bp, are potentially the result of FN mutagenesis. Six of the 18 deletions lie near or within gene coding regions, identifying potential candidate genes causing the mutant phenotype. 	2013	O'Rourke, Jamie A; O'Rourke, JA; O'Rourke; Iniguez, Luis P; Iniguez, LP; Iniguez; Bucciarelli, Bruna; Bucciarelli, B; Bucciarelli; Roessler, Jeffrey; Roessler, J; Roessler; Schmutz, Jeremy; Schmutz, J; Schmutz; McClean, Phillip E; McClean, PE; McClean; Jackson, Scott A; Jackson, SA; Jackson; Hernandez, Georgina; Hernandez, G; Hernandez; Graham, Michelle A; Graham, MA; Graham; Stupar, Robert M; Stupar, RM; Stupar; Vance, Carroll P; Vance, CP; Vance	Front Plant Sci
23785373	Buffet hypothesis for microbial nutrition at the rhizosphere.	An emphasis is made on the diversity of nutrients that rhizosphere bacteria may encounter derived from roots, soil, decaying organic matter, seeds, or the microbial community. This nutrient diversity may be considered analogous to a buffet and is contrasting to the hypothesis of oligotrophy at the rhizosphere. Different rhizosphere bacteria may have preferences for some substrates and this would allow a complex community to be established at the rhizosphere. To profit from diverse nutrients, root-associated bacteria should have large degrading capabilities and many transporters (seemingly inducible) that may be encoded in a significant proportion of the large genomes that root-associated bacteria have. Rhizosphere microbes may have a tendency to evolve toward generalists. We propose that many genes with unknown function may encode enzymes that participate in degrading diverse rhizosphere substrates. Knowledge of bacterial genes required for nutrition at the rhizosphere will help to make better use of bacteria as plant-growth promoters in agriculture.	2013	López-Guerrero, Martha G; López-Guerrero, MG; López-Guerrero; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Martinez-Romero, Julio; Martinez-Romero, J; Martinez-Romero; Martïnez-Romero, Esperanza; Martïnez-Romero, E; Martïnez-Romero	Front Plant Sci
23776535	Transcription factors in Escherichia coli prefer the holo conformation.	The transcriptional regulatory network of Escherichia coli K-12 is among the best studied gene networks of any living cell. Transcription factors bind to DNA either with their effector bound (holo conformation), or as a free protein (apo conformation) regulating transcription initiation. By using RegulonDB, the functional conformations (holo or apo) of transcription factors, and their mode of regulation (activator, repressor, or dual) were exhaustively analyzed. We report a striking discovery in the architecture of the regulatory network, finding a strong under-representation of the apo conformation (without allosteric metabolite) of transcription factors when binding to their DNA sites to activate transcription. This observation is supported at the level of individual regulatory interactions on promoters, even if we exclude the promoters regulated by global transcription factors, where three-quarters of the known promoters are regulated by a transcription factor in holo conformation. This genome-scale analysis enables us to ask what are the implications of these observations for the physiology and for our understanding of the ecology of E. coli. We discuss these ideas within the framework of the demand theory of gene regulation.	2013	Balderas-Martínez, Yalbi Itzel; Balderas-Martínez, YI; Balderas-Martínez; Savageau, Michael; Savageau, M; Savageau; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Pérez-Rueda, Ernesto; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda; Morett, Enrique; Morett, E; Morett; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	PLoS One
23785426	Analysis and prediction of pathways in HeLa cells by integrating biological levels of organization with systems-biology approaches.	It has recently begun to be considered that cancer is a systemic disease and that it must be studied at every level of complexity using many of the currently available approaches, including high-throughput technologies and bioinformatics. To achieve such understanding in cervical cancer, we collected information on gene, protein and phosphoprotein expression of the HeLa cell line and performed a comprehensive analysis of the different signaling pathways, transcription networks and metabolic events in which they participate. A total expression analysis by RNA-Seq of the HeLa cell line showed that 19,974 genes were transcribed. Of these, 3,360 were over-expressed, and 2,129 under-expressed when compared to the NHEK cell line. A protein-protein interaction network was derived from the over-expressed genes and used to identify central elements and, together with the analysis of over-represented transcription factor motifs, to predict active signaling and regulatory pathways. This was further validated by Metal-Oxide Affinity Chromatography (MOAC) and Tandem Mass Spectrometry (MS/MS) assays which retrieved phosphorylated proteins. The 14-3-3 family members emerge as important regulators in carcinogenesis and as possible clinical targets. We observed that the different over- and under-regulated pathways in cervical cancer could be interrelated through elements that participate in crosstalks, therefore belong to what we term "meta-pathways". Additionally, we highlighted the relations of each one of the differentially represented pathways to one or more of the ten hallmarks of cancer. These features could be maintained in many other types of cancer, regardless of mutations or genomic rearrangements, and favor their robustness, adaptations and the evasion of tissue control. Probably, this could explain why cancer cells are not eliminated by selective pressure and why therapy trials directed against molecular targets are not as effective as expected.	2013	Higareda-Almaraz, Juan Carlos; Higareda-Almaraz, JC; Higareda-Almaraz; Valtierra-Gutiérrez, Ilse A; Valtierra-Gutiérrez, IA; Valtierra-Gutiérrez; Hernandez-Ortiz, Magdalena; Hernandez-Ortiz, M; Hernandez-Ortiz; Contreras, Sandra; Contreras, S; Contreras; Hernandez, Erika; Hernandez, E; Hernandez; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Encarnacion, Sergio; Encarnacion, S; Encarnacion	PLoS One
23499616	Phylogenetic evidence of the transfer of nodZ and nolL genes from Bradyrhizobium to other rhizobia.	Nod factor modifications mediated by nodZ and nolL gene products (fucosylation and acetylation of fucose residues, respectively) were probably later acquisitions in the nodulation process. Novel phylogenetic analyses suggest that nodZ and nolL genes were transferred from Bradyrhizobium to other nodule bacteria. These bradyrhizobial genes are highly diverse while rhizobial, sinorhizobial and mesorhizobial nodZ and nolL genes are represented by few branches among those from bradyrhizobia. These genes in novel rhizobial backgrounds may have favored efficient nodulation in legume hosts commonly associated with Bradyrhizobium strains.	2013 Jun	Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis E; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Imperial, Juan; Imperial, J; Imperial; Rey, Luis; Rey, L; Rey; Ruiz-Argueso, Tomás; Ruiz-Argueso, T; Ruiz-Argueso; Martinez-Romero, Esperanza; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero	Mol Phylogenet Evol
22805783	Comparison of prominent Azospirillum strains in Azospirillum-Pseudomonas-Glomus consortia for promotion of maize growth.	Azospirillum are prominent plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) extensively used as phytostimulatory crop inoculants, but only few studies are dealing with Azospirillum-containing mixed inocula involving more than two microorganisms. We compared here three prominent Azospirillum strains as part of three-component consortia including also the PGPR Pseudomonas fluorescens F113 and a mycorrhizal inoculant mix composed of three Glomus strains. Inoculant colonization of maize was assessed by quantitative PCR, transcription of auxin synthesis gene ipdC (involved in phytostimulation) in Azospirillum by RT-PCR, and effects on maize by secondary metabolic profiling and shoot biomass measurements. Results showed that phytostimulation by all the three-component consortia was comparable, despite contrasted survival of the Azospirillum strains and different secondary metabolic responses of maize to inoculation. Unexpectedly, the presence of Azospirillum in the inoculum resulted in lower phytostimulation in comparison with the Pseudomonas-Glomus two-component consortium, but this effect was transient. Azospirillum's ipdC gene was transcribed in all treatments, especially with three-component consortia, but not with all plants and samplings. Inoculation had no negative impact on the prevalence of mycorrhizal taxa in roots. In conclusion, this study brought new insights in the functioning of microbial consortia and showed that Azospirillum-Pseudomonas-Glomus three-component inoculants may be useful in environmental biotechnology for maize growth promotion.	2013 May	Couillerot, Olivier; Couillerot, O; Couillerot; Ramírez-Trujillo, Augusto; Ramírez-Trujillo, A; Ramírez-Trujillo; Walker, Vincent; Walker, V; Walker; von Felten, Andreas; von Felten, A; von Felten; Jansa, Jan; Jansa, J; Jansa; Maurhofer, Monika; Maurhofer, M; Maurhofer; Défago, Geneviève; Défago, G; Défago; Prigent-Combaret, Claire; Prigent-Combaret, C; Prigent-Combaret; Comte, Gilles; Comte, G; Comte; Caballero-Mellado, Jesus; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Moënne-Loccoz, Yvan; Moënne-Loccoz, Y; Moënne-Loccoz	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol
23415482	Phenotypic tests in Rhizobium species description: an opinion and (a sympatric speciation) hypothesis.	Rhizobia seem to have large degradative and metabolic capabilities that allow them to grow on diverse soil and rhizospheric substances, many of which are still unknown. Rhizobial genome sequences encode numerous transporters for unknown substrates, and transcriptomic studies have revealed genes with unknown functions that are highly expressed in roots or rhizospheres. It is proposed here that some of these unknown-function genes may have roles in the assimilation of root or soil substances and that rhizobial speciation avoids nutrient competition. Phenotypic tests, as currently performed in taxonomy (mainly for carbon and nitrogen usage), seem to underestimate rhizobial catabolic capabilities and the differences among species. Furthermore, considering that many Rhizobium transporter and catabolism genes are plasmid-borne, the value of phenotypic results in taxonomic studies is questionable. Genomotaxonomy could soon become a robust basis for proposing novel rhizobial species.	2013 May	Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
23485966	The genomes of four tapeworm species reveal adaptations to parasitism.	Tapeworms (Cestoda) cause neglected diseases that can be fatal and are difficult to treat, owing to inefficient drugs. Here we present an analysis of tapeworm genome sequences using the human-infective species Echinococcus multilocularis, E. granulosus, Taenia solium and the laboratory model Hymenolepis microstoma as examples. The 115- to 141-megabase genomes offer insights into the evolution of parasitism. Synteny is maintained with distantly related blood flukes but we find extreme losses of genes and pathways that are ubiquitous in other animals, including 34 homeobox families and several determinants of stem cell fate. Tapeworms have specialized detoxification pathways, metabolism that is finely tuned to rely on nutrients scavenged from their hosts, and species-specific expansions of non-canonical heat shock proteins and families of known antigens. We identify new potential drug targets, including some on which existing pharmaceuticals may act. The genomes provide a rich resource to underpin the development of urgently needed treatments and control.	2013 Apr	Tsai, Isheng J; Tsai, IJ; Tsai; Zarowiecki, Magdalena; Zarowiecki, M; Zarowiecki; Holroyd, Nancy; Holroyd, N; Holroyd; Garciarrubio, Alejandro; Garciarrubio, A; Garciarrubio; Sánchez-Flores, Alejandro; Sánchez-Flores, A; Sánchez-Flores; Brooks, Karen L; Brooks, KL; Brooks; Tracey, Alan; Tracey, A; Tracey; Bobes, Raúl J; Bobes, RJ; Bobes; Fragoso, Gladis; Fragoso, G; Fragoso; Sciutto, Edda; Sciutto, E; Sciutto; Aslett, Martin; Aslett, M; Aslett; Beasley, Helen; Beasley, H; Beasley; Bennett, Hayley M; Bennett, HM; Bennett; Cai, Xuepeng; Cai, X; Cai; Camicia, Federico; Camicia, F; Camicia; Clark, Richard; Clark, R; Clark; Cucher, Marcela; Cucher, M; Cucher; De Silva, Nishadi; De Silva, N; De Silva; Day, Tim A; Day, TA; Day; Deplazes, Peter; Deplazes, P; Deplazes; Estrada, Karel; Estrada, K; Estrada; Fernández, Cecilia; Fernández, C; Fernández; Holland, Peter W H; Holland, PWH; Holland; Hou, Junling; Hou, J; Hou; Hu, Songnian; Hu, S; Hu; Huckvale, Thomas; Huckvale, T; Huckvale; Hung, Stacy S; Hung, SS; Hung; Kamenetzky, Laura; Kamenetzky, L; Kamenetzky; Keane, Jacqueline A; Keane, JA; Keane; Kiss, Ferenc; Kiss, F; Kiss; Koziol, Uriel; Koziol, U; Koziol; Lambert, Olivia; Lambert, O; Lambert; Liu, Kan; Liu, K; Liu; Luo, Xuenong; Luo, X; Luo; Luo, Yingfeng; Luo, Y; Luo; Macchiaroli, Natalia; Macchiaroli, N; Macchiaroli; Nichol, Sarah; Nichol, S; Nichol; Paps, Jordi; Paps, J; Paps; Parkinson, John; Parkinson, J; Parkinson; Pouchkina-Stantcheva, Natasha; Pouchkina-Stantcheva, N; Pouchkina-Stantcheva; Riddiford, Nick; Riddiford, N; Riddiford; Rosenzvit, Mara; Rosenzvit, M; Rosenzvit; Salinas, Gustavo; Salinas, G; Salinas; Wasmuth, James D; Wasmuth, JD; Wasmuth; Zamanian, Mostafa; Zamanian, M; Zamanian; Zheng, Yadong; Zheng, Y; Zheng; Taenia solium Genome Consortium; Cai, Jianping; Cai, J; Cai; Soberón, Xavier; Soberón, X; Soberón; Olson, Peter D; Olson, PD; Olson; Laclette, Juan P; Laclette, JP; Laclette; Brehm, Klaus; Brehm, K; Brehm; Berriman, Matthew; Berriman, M; Berriman	Nature
23591845	Two common bean genotypes with contrasting response to phosphorus deficiency show variations in the microRNA 399-mediated PvPHO2 regulation within the PvPHR1 signaling pathway.	Crop production of the important legume, the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris), is often limited by low phosphorus (P) in the soil. The genotypes, BAT477 and DOR364, of the common bean have contrasting responses to P starvation. Plants from the BAT477 P deficiency tolerant genotype showed higher phosphate content and root biomass as compared to the DOR364 plants under P starvation. The PvPHR1 transcription factor-signaling pathway plays an essential role in the response to P starvation. PvPHO2, a negative regulator of this pathway, encodes an ubiquitin E2 conjugase that promotes degradation of P-responsive proteins and is the target gene of PvmiR399. PvPHO2 is downregulated in BAT477 plants under P deficiency, while such a response is not observed in P-starved DOR364 plants. Five putative PvmiR399 binding sites were identified in the 5' UTR region in both genotypes. While four sites showed an identical DNA sequence, the fifth (binding site of PvPHO2 one) showed three base changes and higher complementarity scores in DOR364 as compared to BAT477. Modified 5'RACE experiments indicated that PvmiR399 binding and/or processing was affected in DOR364 P-starved plants. We propose that a less efficient cleavage of the PvPHO2 mRNA directed by PvmiR399 would result in a higher PvPHO2-mediated degradation of P-responsive proteins in the DOR364 genotype with decreased P deficiency tolerance.	2013 Apr	Ramírez, Mario; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Flores-Pacheco, Gerardo; Flores-Pacheco, G; Flores-Pacheco; Reyes, José Luis; Reyes, JL; Reyes; Luzlvarez, Ana; Luzlvarez, A; Luzlvarez; Drevon, Jean Jacques; Drevon, JJ; Drevon; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	Int J Mol Sci
22958119	Agrobacteria lacking ornithine lipids induce more rapid tumour formation.	Ornithine lipids (OLs) are phosphorus-free membrane lipids that are widespread among Gram-negative bacteria. Their basic structure consists of a 3-hydroxy fatty acyl group attached in amide linkage to the α-amino group of ornithine and a second fatty acyl group ester-linked to the 3-hydroxy position of the first fatty acid. It has been shown that OLs can be hydroxylated within the amide-linked fatty acyl moiety, the secondary fatty acyl moiety or within the ornithine moiety. These modifications have been related to increased stress tolerance and symbiotic proficiency in different organisms such as Rhizobium tropici or Burkholderia cenocepacia. Analysing the membrane lipid composition of the plant pathogen Agrobacterium tumefaciens we noticed that it forms two different OLs. In the present work we studied if OLs play a role in stress tolerance and pathogenicity in A. tumefaciens. Mutants deficient in the OLs biosynthesis genes olsB or olsE were constructed and characterized. They either completely lack OLs (ΔolsB) or only form the unmodified OL (ΔolsE). Here we present a characterization of both OL mutants under stress conditions and in a plant transformation assay using potato tuber discs. Surprisingly, the lack of agrobacterial OLs promotes earlier tumour formation on the plant host.	2013 Mar	Vences-Guzmán, Miguel Ángel; Vences-Guzmán, MÁ; Vences-Guzmán; Guan, Ziqiang; Guan, Z; Guan; Bermúdez-Barrientos, José Roberto; Bermúdez-Barrientos, JR; Bermúdez-Barrientos; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	Environ Microbiol
23618716	Genome sequence of a novel archaeal fusellovirus assembled from the metagenome of a mexican hot spring.	The consensus genome sequence of a new member of the family Fuselloviridae designated as SMF1 (Sulfolobales Mexican fusellovirus 1) is presented. The complete circular genome was recovered from a metagenomic study of a Mexican hot spring. SMF1 exhibits an exceptional coding strand bias and a reduced set of fuselloviral core genes.	2013 Apr	Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis E; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Peng, Xu; Peng, X; Peng; Garrett, Roger A; Garrett, RA; Garrett; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Genome Announc
22922101	Phosphatidylcholine biosynthesis and function in bacteria.	Phosphatidylcholine (PC) is the major membrane-forming phospholipid in eukaryotes and is estimated to be present in about 15% of the domain Bacteria. Usually, PC can be synthesized in bacteria by either of two pathways, the phospholipid N-methylation (Pmt) pathway or the phosphatidylcholine synthase (Pcs) pathway. The three subsequent enzymatic methylations of phosphatidylethanolamine are performed by a single phospholipid N-methyltransferase in some bacteria whereas other bacteria possess multiple phospholipid N-methyltransferases each one performing one or several distinct methylation steps. Phosphatidylcholine synthase condenses choline directly with CDP-diacylglycerol to form CMP and PC. Like in eukaryotes, bacterial PC also functions as a biosynthetic intermediate during the formation of other biomolecules such as choline, diacylglycerol, or diacylglycerol-based phosphorus-free membrane lipids. Bacterial PC may serve as a specific recognition molecule but it affects the physicochemical properties of bacterial membranes as well. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Phospholipids and Phospholipid Metabolism.	2013 Mar	Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	Biochim Biophys Acta
23402340	Common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) PvTIFY orchestrates global changes in transcript profile response to jasmonate and phosphorus deficiency.	TIFY is a large plant-specific transcription factor gene family. A subgroup of TIFY genes named JAZ (Jasmonate-ZIM domain) has been identified as repressors of jasmonate (JA)-regulated transcription in Arabidopsis and other plants. JA signaling is involved in many aspects of plant growth/development and in defense responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. Here, we identified the TIFY genes (designated PvTIFY) from the legume common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) and functionally characterized PvTIFY10C as a transcriptional regulator.	2013 Feb	Aparicio-Fabre, Rosaura; Aparicio-Fabre, R; Aparicio-Fabre; Guillén, Gabriel; Guillén, G; Guillén; Loredo, Montserrat; Loredo, M; Loredo; Arellano, Jesús; Arellano, J; Arellano; Valdés-López, Oswaldo; Valdés-López, O; Valdés-López; Ramírez, Mario; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Iñiguez, Luis P; Iñiguez, LP; Iñiguez; Panzeri, Dario; Panzeri, D; Panzeri; Castiglioni, Bianca; Castiglioni, B; Castiglioni; Cremonesi, Paola; Cremonesi, P; Cremonesi; Strozzi, Francesco; Strozzi, F; Strozzi; Stella, Alessandra; Stella, A; Stella; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Sparvoli, Francesca; Sparvoli, F; Sparvoli; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	BMC Plant Biol
23280323	Native bradyrhizobia from Los Tuxtlas in Mexico are symbionts of Phaseolus lunatus (Lima bean).	Los Tuxtlas is the northernmost rain forest in North America and is rich in Bradyrhizobium with an unprecedented number of novel lineages. ITS sequence analysis of legumes in polycultures from Los Tuxtlas led to the identification of Phaseolus lunatus and Vigna unguiculata in addition to Phaseolus vulgaris as legumes associated with maize in crops. Bacterial diversity of isolates from nitrogen-fixing nodules of P. lunatus and V. unguiculata was revealed using ERIC-PCR and PCR-RFLP of rpoB genes, and sequencing of recA, nodZ and nifH genes. P. lunatus and V. unguiculata nodule bacteria corresponded to bradyrhizobia closely related to certain native bradyrhizobia from the Los Tuxtlas forest and novel groups were found. This is the first report of nodule bacteria from P. lunatus in its Mesoamerican site of origin and domestication.	2013 Feb	López-López, Aline; López-López, A; López-López; Negrete-Yankelevich, Simoneta; Negrete-Yankelevich, S; Negrete-Yankelevich; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Martínez, Julio; Martínez, J; Martínez; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
23405288	Genome sequence of a novel archaeal rudivirus recovered from a mexican hot spring.	We report the consensus genome sequence of a novel GC-rich rudivirus, designated SMR1 (Sulfolobales Mexican rudivirus 1), assembled from a high-throughput sequenced environmental sample from a hot spring in Los Azufres National Park in western Mexico.	2013 Jan	Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis E; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Peng, Xu; Peng, X; Peng; Garrett, Roger A; Garrett, RA; Garrett; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Genome Announc
23143106	EcoCyc: fusing model organism databases with systems biology.	EcoCyc (http://EcoCyc.org) is a model organism database built on the genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12 MG1655. Expert manual curation of the functions of individual E. coli gene products in EcoCyc has been based on information found in the experimental literature for E. coli K-12-derived strains. Updates to EcoCyc content continue to improve the comprehensive picture of E. coli biology. The utility of EcoCyc is enhanced by new tools available on the EcoCyc web site, and the development of EcoCyc as a teaching tool is increasing the impact of the knowledge collected in EcoCyc.	2013 Jan	Keseler, Ingrid M; Keseler, IM; Keseler; Mackie, Amanda; Mackie, A; Mackie; Peralta-Gil, Martin; Peralta-Gil, M; Peralta-Gil; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Bonavides-Martínez, César; Bonavides-Martínez, C; Bonavides-Martínez; Fulcher, Carol; Fulcher, C; Fulcher; Huerta, Araceli M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Kothari, Anamika; Kothari, A; Kothari; Krummenacker, Markus; Krummenacker, M; Krummenacker; Latendresse, Mario; Latendresse, M; Latendresse; Muñiz-Rascado, Luis; Muñiz-Rascado, L; Muñiz-Rascado; Ong, Quang; Ong, Q; Ong; Paley, Suzanne; Paley, S; Paley; Schröder, Imke; Schröder, I; Schröder; Shearer, Alexander G; Shearer, AG; Shearer; Subhraveti, Pallavi; Subhraveti, P; Subhraveti; Travers, Mike; Travers, M; Travers; Weerasinghe, Deepika; Weerasinghe, D; Weerasinghe; Weiss, Verena; Weiss, V; Weiss; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Gunsalus, Robert P; Gunsalus, RP; Gunsalus; Paulsen, Ian; Paulsen, I; Paulsen; Karp, Peter D; Karp, PD; Karp	Nucleic Acids Res
23405365	Genome Sequence of the Acidophilic Bacterium Acidocella sp. Strain MX-AZ02.	Here, we report the draft genome sequence of Acidocella sp. strain MX-AZ02, an acidophilic and heterotrophic alphaproteobacterium isolated from a geothermal lake in western Mexico.	2013 Jan	Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis E; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Garrett, Roger A; Garrett, RA; Garrett; Amils, Ricardo; Amils, R; Amils; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Genome Announc
23104406	Gut and root microbiota commonalities.	Animal guts and plant roots have absorption roles for nutrient uptake and converge in harboring large, complex, and dynamic groups of microbes that participate in degradation or modification of nutrients and other substances. Gut and root bacteria regulate host gene expression, provide metabolic capabilities, essential nutrients, and protection against pathogens, and seem to share evolutionary trends.	2013 Jan	Ramírez-Puebla, Shamayim T; Ramírez-Puebla, ST; Ramírez-Puebla; Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis E; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Jiménez-Marín, Berenice; Jiménez-Marín, B; Jiménez-Marín; Bolaños, Luis M; Bolaños, LM; Bolaños; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Martínez, Julio; Martínez, J; Martínez; Rogel, Marco Antonio; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Appl Environ Microbiol
22984892	Hydrocarbon-degrading potential of microbial communities from Arctic plants.	To explore rhizospheric microbial communities from Arctic native plant species evaluating their bacterial hydrocarbon-degrading capacities.	2013 Jan	Ferrera-Rodríguez, O; Ferrera-Rodríguez, O; Ferrera-Rodríguez; Greer, C W; Greer, CW; Greer; Juck, D; Juck, D; Juck; Consaul, L L; Consaul, LL; Consaul; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Whyte, L G; Whyte, LG; Whyte	J Appl Microbiol
23203884	RegulonDB v8.0: omics data sets, evolutionary conservation, regulatory phrases, cross-validated gold standards and more.	This article summarizes our progress with RegulonDB (http://regulondb.ccg.unam.mx/) during the past 2 years. We have kept up-to-date the knowledge from the published literature regarding transcriptional regulation in Escherichia coli K-12. We have maintained and expanded our curation efforts to improve the breadth and quality of the encoded experimental knowledge, and we have implemented criteria for the quality of our computational predictions. Regulatory phrases now provide high-level descriptions of regulatory regions. We expanded the assignment of quality to various sources of evidence, particularly for knowledge generated through high-throughput (HT) technology. Based on our analysis of most relevant methods, we defined rules for determining the quality of evidence when multiple independent sources support an entry. With this latest release of RegulonDB, we present a new highly reliable larger collection of transcription start sites, a result of our experimental HT genome-wide efforts. These improvements, together with several novel enhancements (the tracks display, uploading format and curational guidelines), address the challenges of incorporating HT-generated knowledge into RegulonDB. Information on the evolutionary conservation of regulatory elements is also available now. Altogether, RegulonDB version 8.0 is a much better home for integrating knowledge on gene regulation from the sources of information currently available.	2013 Jan	Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Peralta-Gil, Martin; Peralta-Gil, M; Peralta-Gil; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Muñiz-Rascado, Luis; Muñiz-Rascado, L; Muñiz-Rascado; García-Sotelo, Jair S; García-Sotelo, JS; García-Sotelo; Weiss, Verena; Weiss, V; Weiss; Solano-Lira, Hilda; Solano-Lira, H; Solano-Lira; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; Medina-Rivera, Alejandra; Medina-Rivera, A; Medina-Rivera; Salgado-Osorio, Gerardo; Salgado-Osorio, G; Salgado-Osorio; Alquicira-Hernández, Shirley; Alquicira-Hernández, S; Alquicira-Hernández; Alquicira-Hernández, Kevin; Alquicira-Hernández, K; Alquicira-Hernández; López-Fuentes, Alejandra; López-Fuentes, A; López-Fuentes; Porrón-Sotelo, Liliana; Porrón-Sotelo, L; Porrón-Sotelo; Huerta, Araceli M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Bonavides-Martínez, César; Bonavides-Martínez, C; Bonavides-Martínez; Balderas-Martínez, Yalbi I; Balderas-Martínez, YI; Balderas-Martínez; Pannier, Lucia; Pannier, L; Pannier; Olvera, Maricela; Olvera, M; Olvera; Labastida, Aurora; Labastida, A; Labastida; Jiménez-Jacinto, Verónica; Jiménez-Jacinto, V; Jiménez-Jacinto; Vega-Alvarado, Leticia; Vega-Alvarado, L; Vega-Alvarado; Del Moral-Chávez, Victor; Del Moral-Chávez, V; Del Moral-Chávez; Hernández-Alvarez, Alfredo; Hernández-Alvarez, A; Hernández-Alvarez; Morett, Enrique; Morett, E; Morett; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
22975386	The repAC replication system of the Rhizobium leguminosarum pRL7 plasmid is functional: implications regarding the origin and evolution of repABC plasmids.	The repABC replication/partitioning systems are commonly found in alpha-proteobacteria plasmids and in secondary chromosomes. All of the elements required for their replication and stable maintenance are encoded within a single transcription unit: the repABC operon. The repC gene encodes an initiator protein, while RepA, RepB and centromere-like sequence (parS) direct plasmid segregation. Strains containing two or more repABC plasmids are a common feature in some alpha proteobacteria groups, indicating that the repABC plasmid family embraces several incompatibility groups. Genes encoded within repABC operons are highly dynamic: each one possess its own distinctive phylogeny and homologous recombination events are common within these operons. Additionally, alpha-proteobacterial genomes contain repAB genes not associated with the ctRNA or with repC as well as plasmids whose replication depends on a ctRNA-repC module without the participation of repAB genes. Some alphaproteobacteria have repC genes clustered with other genes that are not involved in replication/partitioning functions. These atypical associations of genes could have an important role in the origin and diversification of new plasmids. Here we evaluated the functionality and possible evolutionary consequences of one of these atypical gene associations: the repAC genes present in the Rhizobium leguminosarum plasmid pRL7. The repAC genes are organized in an operon and they are capable of sustaining replication but in an unstable manner. RepC was essential for replication, and the origin of replication resides within its coding region. In contrast, RepA plays a minor role in the negative regulation of its own transcription.	2013 Jan	Pérez-Segura, Gabriela; Pérez-Segura, G; Pérez-Segura; Pérez-Oseguera, Angeles; Pérez-Oseguera, A; Pérez-Oseguera; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	Plasmid
22389284	Transfer of Wautersia numazuensis to the genus Cupriavidus as Cupriavidus numazuensis comb. nov.	Phylogenetic analysis of the 16S rRNA gene sequences of strains TE26(T) and K6 belonging to Wautersia numazuensis Kageyama et al. 2005 showed the strains to be deeply intermingled among the species of the genus Cupriavidus. The comparison showed that strain TE26(T) was closely related to the type strains of Cupriavidus pinatubonensis (99.1 % 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity), C. basilensis (98.7 %), C. necator (98.7 %) and C. gilardii (98.0 %). However, DNA-DNA hybridization experiments (less than 20 % relatedness) demonstrated that strain TE26(T) is different from these Cupriavidus species. A comparative phenotypic and chemotaxonomic analysis (based on fatty acid profiles) in combination with the 16S rRNA gene sequence phylogenetic analysis and the DNA-DNA hybridization results supported the incorporation of Wautersia numazuensis into the genus Cupriavidus as Cupriavidus numazuensis comb. nov.; the type strain is TE26(T) (=LMG 26411(T) =DSM 15562(T) = CIP 108892(T)).	2013 Jan	Martínez-Aguilar, Lourdes; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Estrada-de Los Santos, Paulina; Estrada-de Los Santos, P; Estrada-de Los Santos	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
23270491	Genomic basis of broad host range and environmental adaptability of Rhizobium tropici CIAT 899 and Rhizobium sp. PRF 81 which are used in inoculants for common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.).	Rhizobium tropici CIAT 899 and Rhizobium sp. PRF 81 are α-Proteobacteria that establish nitrogen-fixing symbioses with a range of legume hosts. These strains are broadly used in commercial inoculants for application to common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) in South America and Africa. Both strains display intrinsic resistance to several abiotic stressful conditions such as low soil pH and high temperatures, which are common in tropical environments, and to several antimicrobials, including pesticides. The genetic determinants of these interesting characteristics remain largely unknown.	2012 Dec	Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Menna, Pâmela; Menna, P; Menna; Almeida, Luiz Gonzaga P; Almeida, LG; Almeida; Ollero, Francisco Javier; Ollero, FJ; Ollero; Nicolás, Marisa Fabiana; Nicolás, MF; Nicolás; Pains Rodrigues, Elisete; Pains Rodrigues, E; Pains Rodrigues; Shigueyoshi Nakatani, Andre; Shigueyoshi Nakatani, A; Shigueyoshi Nakatani; Silva Batista, Jesiane Stefânia; Silva Batista, JS; Silva Batista; Oliveira Chueire, Ligia Maria; Oliveira Chueire, LM; Oliveira Chueire; Souza, Rangel Celso; Souza, RC; Souza; Ribeiro Vasconcelos, Ana Tereza; Ribeiro Vasconcelos, AT; Ribeiro Vasconcelos; Megías, Manuel; Megías, M; Megías; Hungria, Mariangela; Hungria, M; Hungria; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	BMC Genomics
24705077	Genome Sequence of Azospirillum brasilense CBG497 and Comparative Analyses of Azospirillum Core and Accessory Genomes provide Insight into Niche Adaptation.	Bacteria of the genus Azospirillum colonize roots of important cereals and grasses, and promote plant growth by several mechanisms, notably phytohormone synthesis. The genomes of several Azospirillum strains belonging to different species, isolated from various host plants and locations, were recently sequenced and published. In this study, an additional genome of an A. brasilense strain, isolated from maize grown on an alkaline soil in the northeast of Mexico, strain CBG497, was obtained. Comparative genomic analyses were performed on this new genome and three other genomes (A. brasilense Sp245, A. lipoferum 4B and Azospirillum sp. B510). The Azospirillum core genome was established and consists of 2,328 proteins, representing between 30% to 38% of the total encoded proteins within a genome. It is mainly chromosomally-encoded and contains 74% of genes of ancestral origin shared with some aquatic relatives. The non-ancestral part of the core genome is enriched in genes involved in signal transduction, in transport and in metabolism of carbohydrates and amino-acids, and in surface properties features linked to adaptation in fluctuating environments, such as soil and rhizosphere. Many genes involved in colonization of plant roots, plant-growth promotion (such as those involved in phytohormone biosynthesis), and properties involved in rhizosphere adaptation (such as catabolism of phenolic compounds, uptake of iron) are restricted to a particular strain and/or species, strongly suggesting niche-specific adaptation. 	2012 Sep	Wisniewski-Dyé, Florence; Wisniewski-Dyé, F; Wisniewski-Dyé; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Acosta-Cruz, Erika; Acosta-Cruz, E; Acosta-Cruz; Borland, Stéphanie; Borland, S; Borland; Drogue, Benoît; Drogue, B; Drogue; Prigent-Combaret, Claire; Prigent-Combaret, C; Prigent-Combaret; Rouy, Zoé; Rouy, Z; Rouy; Barbe, Valérie; Barbe, V; Barbe; Herrera, Alberto Mendoza; Herrera, AM; Herrera; González, Victor; González, V; González; Mavingui, Patrick; Mavingui, P; Mavingui	Genes (Basel)
23144400	Genome sequence of Rhizobium grahamii CCGE502, a broad-host-range symbiont with low nodulation competitiveness in Phaseolus vulgaris.	Here we present the genome sequence of Rhizobium grahamii CCGE502. R. grahamii groups with other newly described broad-host-range species, which are not very efficient Phaseolus vulgaris symbionts, with a wide geographic distribution and which constitutes a novel Rhizobium clade.	2012 Dec	Althabegoiti, M Julia; Althabegoiti, MJ; Althabegoiti; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Torres-Tejerizo, Gonzalo; Torres-Tejerizo, G; Torres-Tejerizo; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	J Bacteriol
22669633	Laboratory metabolic evolution improves acetate tolerance and growth on acetate of ethanologenic Escherichia coli under non-aerated conditions in glucose-mineral medium.	In this work, Escherichia coli MG1655 was engineered to produce ethanol and evolved in a laboratory process to obtain an acetate tolerant strain called MS04 (E. coli MG1655: ΔpflB, ΔadhE, ΔfrdA, ΔxylFGH, ΔldhA, PpflB::pdc                 (                   Zm                 )                 -adhB                 (                   Zm                 ), evolved). The growth and ethanol production kinetics of strain MS04 were determined in mineral medium, mainly under non-aerated conditions, supplemented with glucose in the presence of different concentrations of sodium acetate at pH 7.0 and at different values of acid pH and a constant concentration of sodium acetate (2 g/l). Results revealed an increase in the specific growth rate, cell mass formation, and ethanol volumetric productivity at moderate concentrations of sodium acetate (2-10 g/l), in addition to a high tolerance to acetate because it was able to grow and produce a high yield of ethanol in the presence of up to 40 g/l of sodium acetate. Genomic analysis of the ΔpflB evolved strain identified that a chromosomal deletion of 27.3 kb generates the improved growth and acetate tolerance in MG1655 ΔpflB derivative strains. This deletion comprises genes related to the respiration of nitrate, repair of alkylated DNA and synthesis of the ompC gene coding for porin C, cytochromes C, thiamine, and colonic acid. Strain MS04 is advantageous for the production of ethanol from hemicellulosic hydrolysates that contain acetate.	2012 Dec	Fernández-Sandoval, M T; Fernández-Sandoval, MT; Fernández-Sandoval; Huerta-Beristain, G; Huerta-Beristain, G; Huerta-Beristain; Trujillo-Martinez, B; Trujillo-Martinez, B; Trujillo-Martinez; Bustos, P; Bustos, P; Bustos; González, V; González, V; González; Bolivar, F; Bolivar, F; Bolivar; Gosset, G; Gosset, G; Gosset; Martinez, A; Martinez, A; Martinez	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol
22921315	Characterization of an influenza A virus in Mexican swine that is related to the A/H1N1/2009 pandemic clade.	In the spring of 2009, swine-origin influenza H1N1pdm09 viruses caused the first influenza pandemic of this century. We characterized the influenza viruses that circulated early during the outbreak in Mexico, including one newly sequenced swine H1N1pdm09 virus and three newly sequenced human H1N1pdm09 viruses that circulated in the outbreak of respiratory disease in La Gloria, Veracruz. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that the swine isolate (A/swine/Mexico/4/2009) collected in April 2009 is positioned in a branch that is basal to the rest of the H1N1pdm09 clade in two (NP and PA) of the eight single-gene trees. In addition, the concatenated HA-NA and the complete whole-genome trees also showed a basal position for A/swine/Mexico/4/2009. Furthermore, this swine virus was found to share molecular traits with non-H1N1pdm09 H1N1 viral lineages. These results suggest that this isolate could potentially be the first one detected from a sister lineage closely related to the H1N1pdm09 viruses.	2012 Nov	Escalera-Zamudio, Marina; Escalera-Zamudio, M; Escalera-Zamudio; Cobián-Güemes, Georgina; Cobián-Güemes, G; Cobián-Güemes; de los Dolores Soto-del Río, María; de los Dolores Soto-del Río, M; de los Dolores Soto-del Río; Isa, Pavel; Isa, P; Isa; Sánchez-Betancourt, Iván; Sánchez-Betancourt, I; Sánchez-Betancourt; Parissi-Crivelli, Aurora; Parissi-Crivelli, A; Parissi-Crivelli; Martínez-Cázares, María Teresa; Martínez-Cázares, MT; Martínez-Cázares; Romero, Pedro; Romero, P; Romero; Velázquez-Salinas, Lauro; Velázquez-Salinas, L; Velázquez-Salinas; Huerta-Lozano, Belem; Huerta-Lozano, B; Huerta-Lozano; Nelson, Martha; Nelson, M; Nelson; Montero, Hilda; Montero, H; Montero; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; López, Susana; López, S; López; Arias, Carlos F; Arias, CF; Arias	Virology
23104370	Complete mitochondrial and plastid genomes of the green microalga Trebouxiophyceae sp. strain MX-AZ01 isolated from a highly acidic geothermal lake.	We report the complete organelle genome sequences of Trebouxiophyceae sp. strain MX-AZ01, an acidophilic green microalga isolated from a geothermal field in Mexico. This eukaryote has the remarkable ability to thrive in a particular shallow lake with emerging hot springs at the bottom, extremely low pH, and toxic heavy metal concentrations. Trebouxiophyceae sp. MX-AZ01 represents one of few described photosynthetic eukaryotes living in such a hostile environment. The organelle genomes of Trebouxiophyceae sp. MX-AZ01 are remarkable. The plastid genome sequence currently presents the highest G+C content for a trebouxiophyte. The mitochondrial genome sequence is the largest reported to date for the Trebouxiophyceae class of green algae. The analysis of the genome sequences presented here provides insight into the evolution of organelle genomes of trebouxiophytes and green algae.	2012 Nov	Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis E; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Eukaryot Cell
22994649	Evolutionary relationships of flavobacterial and enterobacterial endosymbionts with their scale insect hosts (Hemiptera: Coccoidea).	Flavobacteria and Enterobacteriaceae have been previously reported as scale insect endosymbionts. The purpose of this work was twofold: first, to screen different scale insect families for the presence of these endosymbionts by PCR analyses and second, to elucidate the history of cophylogeny between these bacteria and the insects by analysing a portion of 16S rRNA and 18S rRNA gene sequences by two reconciliation tools, CoRe-PA and Jane. From a survey of 27 scale insects within seven families, we identified Flavobacteria and Enterobacteriaceae as coexisting in ten species that belong to the Ortheziidae, Monophlebidae, Diaspididae and Coccidae families, and we frequently found two closely related enterobacteria harboured in the same individual. Analyses performed with CoRe-PA and Jane suggest that Flavobacteria from the scale insects analysed have a unique origin, except for Candidatus Brownia rhizoecola (Flavobacteria of Pseudococcidae, Phenacoccinae), which seems to come from a nonscale insect. Nevertheless, cospeciation between Flavobacteria and scale insects is suggested only within the families Monophlebidae, Ortheziidae and Diaspididae, and host switches seem to have occurred from the ancestors of Monophlebidae and Ortheziidae to insects from families Coccidae, Lecanodiaspididae, Eriococcidae and Pseudococcidae. Our analyses suggest that Enterobacteriaceae underwent more evolutionary events (losses, duplications and host switches), and their phylogenies showed a lower proportion of congruent nodes between host and bacteria, indicating a more relaxed relationship with scale insects compared with Flavobacteria.	2012 Nov	Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Sayavedra, L; Sayavedra, L; Sayavedra; Sámano-Sánchez, H; Sámano-Sánchez, H; Sámano-Sánchez; Roth, A; Roth, A; Roth; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	J Evol Biol
22809273	FxkR provides the missing link in the fixL-fixK signal transduction cascade in Rhizobium etli CFN42.	Transcriptional control of the fixK gene in Rhizobium etli and R. leguminosarum bv. viciae is governed by a two-component signal transduction system that diverts from the conventional FixL-FixJ cascade that occurs in model rhizobia. Although a fixL gene, encoding a hybrid histidine kinase (hFixL), is present in R. etli, no fixJ, the cognate response regulator, has been identified. In this work, we present evidence that the pRet42f-located open reading frame RHE_PF00530 (fxkR) encodes a novel response regulator indispensable for fixKf activation under microaerobic growth. Moreover, results from complementation assays demonstrate that the activation of fixKf expression requires the presence of both hFixL and FxkR, and that the fxkR ortholog from R. leguminosarum bv. viciae is able to substitute for FxkR transcriptional control in R. etli. In addition, in these two organisms, hFixL- and FxkR-related proteins were identified in other bacteria, located in close proximity to a fixK-related gene. Using reporter fusions, site-directed mutagenesis, and electrophoretic mobility shift assays, we identified the FxkR binding site upstream from the transcriptional start site of fixKf. Similar to our previous observations for fixL and fixKf mutants, a null mutation in fxkR does not affect the symbiotic effectiveness of the strain. Thus, our findings reveal that FxkR is the long-standing missing key regulator that allows the transduction of the microaerobic signal for the activation of the FixKf regulon.	2012 Nov	Zamorano-Sánchez, David; Zamorano-Sánchez, D; Zamorano-Sánchez; Reyes-González, Alma; Reyes-González, A; Reyes-González; Gómez-Hernández, Nicolás; Gómez-Hernández, N; Gómez-Hernández; Rivera, Patricia; Rivera, P; Rivera; Georgellis, Dimitris; Georgellis, D; Georgellis; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
23105056	Genome sequence of Rhizobium sp. strain CCGE510, a symbiont isolated from nodules of the endangered wild bean Phaseolus albescens.	We present the genome sequence of Rhizobium sp. strain CCGE510, a nitrogen fixing bacterium taxonomically affiliated with the R. leguminosarum-R. etli group, isolated from wild Phaseolus albescens nodules grown in native pine forests in western Mexico. P. albescens is an endangered bean species phylogenetically related to P. vulgaris. In spite of the close host relatedness, Rhizobium sp. CCGE510 does not establish an efficient symbiosis with P. vulgaris. This is the first genome of a Rhizobium symbiont from a Phaseolus species other than P. vulgaris, and it will provide valuable new insights about symbiont-host specificity.	2012 Nov	Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis E; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Delgado-Salinas, Alfonso; Delgado-Salinas, A; Delgado-Salinas; Martínez-Romero, Julio; Martínez-Romero, J; Martínez-Romero; Sánchez, Federico; Sánchez, F; Sánchez; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	J Bacteriol
22813963	Rhizobial extrachromosomal replicon variability, stability and expression in natural niches.	In bacteria, niche adaptation may be determined by mobile extrachromosomal elements. A remarkable characteristic of Rhizobium and Ensifer (Sinorhizobium) but also of Agrobacterium species is that almost half of the genome is contained in several large extrachromosomal replicons (ERs). They encode a plethora of functions, some of them required for bacterial survival, niche adaptation, plasmid transfer or stability. In spite of this, plasmid loss is common in rhizobia upon subculturing. Rhizobial gene-expression studies in plant rhizospheres with novel results from transcriptomic analysis of Rhizobium phaseoli in maize and Phaseolus vulgaris roots highlight the role of ERs in natural niches and allowed the identification of common extrachromosomal genes expressed in association with plant rootlets and the replicons involved.	2012 Nov	López-Guerrero, Martha G; López-Guerrero, MG; López-Guerrero; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Acosta, José Luis; Acosta, JL; Acosta; Mendoza-Vargas, Alfredo; Mendoza-Vargas, A; Mendoza-Vargas; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Ramírez, Miguel Angel; Ramírez, MA; Ramírez; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Martínez-Romero, Julio; Martínez-Romero, J; Martínez-Romero; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Plasmid
22728391	Prokaryotic regulatory systems biology: Common principles governing the functional architectures of Bacillus subtilis and Escherichia coli unveiled by the natural decomposition approach.	Escherichia coli and Bacillus subtilis are two of the best-studied prokaryotic model organisms. Previous analyses of their transcriptional regulatory networks have shown that they exhibit high plasticity during evolution and suggested that both converge to scale-free-like structures. Nevertheless, beyond this suggestion, no analyses have been carried out to identify the common systems-level components and principles governing these organisms. Here we show that these two phylogenetically distant organisms follow a set of common novel biologically consistent systems principles revealed by the mathematically and biologically founded natural decomposition approach. The discovered common functional architecture is a diamond-shaped, matryoshka-like, three-layer (coordination, processing, and integration) hierarchy exhibiting feedback, which is shaped by four systems-level components: global transcription factors (global TFs), locally autonomous modules, basal machinery and intermodular genes. The first mathematical criterion to identify global TFs, the κ-value, was reassessed on B. subtilis and confirmed its high predictive power by identifying all the previously reported, plus three potential, master regulators and eight sigma factors. The functionally conserved cores of modules, basal cell machinery, and a set of non-orthologous common physiological global responses were identified via both orthologous genes and non-orthologous conserved functions. This study reveals novel common systems principles maintained between two phylogenetically distant organisms and provides a comparison of their lifestyle adaptations. Our results shed new light on the systems-level principles and the fundamental functions required by bacteria to sustain life.	2012 Oct	Freyre-González, Julio A; Freyre-González, JA; Freyre-González; Treviño-Quintanilla, Luis G; Treviño-Quintanilla, LG; Treviño-Quintanilla; Valtierra-Gutiérrez, Ilse A; Valtierra-Gutiérrez, IA; Valtierra-Gutiérrez; Gutiérrez-Ríos, Rosa María; Gutiérrez-Ríos, RM; Gutiérrez-Ríos; Alonso-Pavón, José A; Alonso-Pavón, JA; Alonso-Pavón	J Biotechnol
23209231	Draft genome sequence of the bean-nodulating Sinorhizobium fredii strain GR64.	Sinorhizobium fredii GR64 is a peculiar strain that is able to effectively nodulate bean but not soybean, the common host of S. fredii. Here we present the draft genome of S. fredii GR64. This information will contribute to a better understanding of the symbiotic rhizobium-plant interaction and of rhizobial evolution.	2012 Dec	Torres Tejerizo, Gonzalo; Torres Tejerizo, G; Torres Tejerizo; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom	J Bacteriol
23071431	Functional modules, structural topology, and optimal activity in metabolic networks.	Modular organization in biological networks has been suggested as a natural mechanism by which a cell coordinates its metabolic strategies for evolving and responding to environmental perturbations. To understand how this occurs, there is a need for developing computational schemes that contribute to integration of genomic-scale information and assist investigators in formulating biological hypotheses in a quantitative and systematic fashion. In this work, we combined metabolome data and constraint-based modeling to elucidate the relationships among structural modules, functional organization, and the optimal metabolic phenotype of Rhizobium etli, a bacterium that fixes nitrogen in symbiosis with Phaseolus vulgaris. To experimentally characterize the metabolic phenotype of this microorganism, we obtained the metabolic profile of 220 metabolites at two physiological stages: under free-living conditions, and during nitrogen fixation with P. vulgaris. By integrating these data into a constraint-based model, we built a refined computational platform with the capability to survey the metabolic activity underlying nitrogen fixation in R. etli. Topological analysis of the metabolic reconstruction led us to identify modular structures with functional activities. Consistent with modular activity in metabolism, we found that most of the metabolites experimentally detected in each module simultaneously increased their relative abundances during nitrogen fixation. In this work, we explore the relationships among topology, biological function, and optimal activity in the metabolism of R. etli through an integrative analysis based on modeling and metabolome data. Our findings suggest that the metabolic activity during nitrogen fixation is supported by interacting structural modules that correlate with three functional classifications: nucleic acids, peptides, and lipids. More fundamentally, we supply evidence that such modular organization during functional nitrogen fixation is a robust property under different environmental conditions.	2012	Resendis-Antonio, Osbaldo; Resendis-Antonio, O; Resendis-Antonio; Hernández, Magdalena; Hernández, M; Hernández; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación	PLoS Comput Biol
23209196	Genome sequences of Burkholderia sp. strains CCGE1002 and H160, isolated from legume nodules in Mexico and Brazil.	The genome sequences of Burkholderia sp. strains CCGE1002 from Mexico and H160 from Brazil, isolated from legume nodules, are reported. Their gene contents in relation to plant-microbe interactions and xenobiotic degradation are discussed.	2012 Dec	Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Chueire, Ligia Maria Oliveira; Chueire, LM; Chueire; Tiedje, James M; Tiedje, JM; Tiedje; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Hungria, Mariangela; Hungria, M; Hungria	J Bacteriol
22724388	Ornithine lipids and their structural modifications: from A to E and beyond.	Ornithine lipids (OLs) are phosphorus-free membrane lipids that are widespread in eubacteria, but absent from archaea and eukaryotes. They contain a 3-hydroxy fatty acyl group attached in amide linkage to the α-amino group of the amino acid ornithine. A second fatty acyl group is ester-linked to the 3-hydroxy position of the first fatty acid. About 25% of the bacterial species whose genomes have been sequenced are predicted to have the capacity to form OLs. Distinct OL hydroxylations have been described in the ester-linked fatty acid, the amide-linked fatty acid, and the ornithine moiety. These modifications often seem to form part of a bacterial stress response to changing environmental conditions, allowing the bacteria to adjust membrane properties by simply modifying already existing membrane lipids without the need to synthesize new lipids.	2012 Oct	Vences-Guzmán, Miguel Á; Vences-Guzmán, MÁ; Vences-Guzmán; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	FEMS Microbiol Lett
22609877	Sulfate uptake in photosynthetic Euglena gracilis. Mechanisms of regulation and contribution to cysteine homeostasis.	Sulfate uptake was analyzed in photosynthetic Euglena gracilis grown in sulfate sufficient or sulfate deficient media, or under Cd(2+) exposure or Cys overload, to determine its regulatory mechanisms and contribution to Cys homeostasis.	2012 Oct	García-García, Jorge Donato; García-García, JD; García-García; Olin-Sandoval, Viridiana; Olin-Sandoval, V; Olin-Sandoval; Saavedra, Emma; Saavedra, E; Saavedra; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Moreno-Sánchez, Rafael; Moreno-Sánchez, R; Moreno-Sánchez	Biochim Biophys Acta
22554028	Understanding microbial community diversity metrics derived from metagenomes: performance evaluation using simulated data sets.	Metagenomics holds the promise of greatly advancing the study of diversity in natural communities, but novel theoretical and methodological approaches must first be developed and adjusted for these data sets. We evaluated widely used macroecological metrics of taxonomic diversity on a simulated set of metagenomic samples, using phylogenetically meaningful protein-coding genes as ecological proxies. To our knowledge, this is the first approach of this kind to evaluate taxonomic diversity metrics derived from metagenomic data sets. We demonstrate that abundance matrices derived from protein-coding marker genes reproduce more faithfully the structure of the original community than those derived from SSU-rRNA gene. We also found that the most commonly used diversity metrics are biased estimators of community structure and differ significantly from their corresponding real parameters and that these biases are most likely caused by insufficient sampling and differences in community phylogenetic composition. Our results suggest that the ranking of samples using multidimensional metrics makes a good qualitative alternative for contrasting community structure and that these comparisons can be greatly improved with the incorporation of metrics for both community structure and phylogenetic diversity. These findings will help to achieve a standardized framework for community diversity comparisons derived from metagenomic data sets.	2012 Oct	Bonilla-Rosso, Germán; Bonilla-Rosso, G; Bonilla-Rosso; Eguiarte, Luis E; Eguiarte, LE; Eguiarte; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Travisano, Michael; Travisano, M; Travisano; Souza, Valeria; Souza, V; Souza	FEMS Microbiol Ecol
22906238	Detection of hssS, hssR, hrtA, and hrtB genes and their expression by hemin in  Staphylococcus epidermidis.	Staphylococcus aureus  employs a heme sensing system (HssR-HssS) and a heme-regulated transporter efflux pump (HrtA-HrtB) to avoid the accumulation of heme, which is toxic at high concentrations. The detoxification system to heme has not been studied in  Staphylococcus epidermidis . In this work, the hssR, hssS, hrtA, and hrtB genes were detected, and their expression when stimulated by hemin in S. epidermidis was explored. In silico genomic analyses exhibited that the genetic organization of the hssRS and hrtAB genes was identical in 11 Staphylococcus species analyzed, including S. epidermidis. Slight variations were found in their syntenic regions. The predicted secondary structure of HrtAB proteins from these species was almost identical to these of S. aureus. Additionally, hrtAB promoter sequences of some species were analyzed, and 1 or 2 different nucleotide substitutions were found in the downstream motif. Concentrations of hemin above 5 µmol/L inhibited S. epidermidis growth. However, S. epidermidis that was pre-exposed to a subinhibitory hemin concentration (1 µmol/L) was able to grow when inoculated into medium containing above 5 µmol/L hemin. The expression levels of hrtA and hrtB genes in S. epidermidis exhibited a significant difference when they were stimulated with hemin. Our results suggest that the HrtAB could be involved in hemin detoxification of S. epidermidis.	2012 Sep	Juárez-Verdayes, Marco A; Juárez-Verdayes, MA; Juárez-Verdayes; González-Uribe, Pilar M; González-Uribe, PM; González-Uribe; Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta; Rodríguez-Martínez, Sandra; Rodríguez-Martínez, S; Rodríguez-Martínez; Jan-Roblero, Janet; Jan-Roblero, J; Jan-Roblero; Escamilla-Hernández, Rosalba; Escamilla-Hernández, R; Escamilla-Hernández; Cancino-Diaz, Mario E; Cancino-Diaz, ME; Cancino-Diaz; Cancino-Diaz, Juan C; Cancino-Diaz, JC; Cancino-Diaz	Can J Microbiol
22511804	Enhanced expression of Rhizobium etli cbb₃ oxidase improves drought tolerance of common bean symbiotic nitrogen fixation.	To investigate the involvement of Rhizobium etli cbb(3) oxidase in the response of Phaseolus vulgaris to drought, common bean plants were inoculated with the R. etli strain, CFNX713, overexpressing this oxidase in bacteroids (cbb(3)(+)) and subjected to drought conditions. The negative effect of drought on plant and nodule dryweight, nitrogen content, and nodule functionality was more pronounced in plants inoculated with the wild-type (WT) strain than in those inoculated with the cbb(3)(+) strain. Regardless of the plant treatment, bacteroids produced by the cbb(3)(+) strain showed higher respiratory capacity than those produced by the WT strain. Inoculation of plants with the cbb(3)(+) strain alleviated the negative effect of a moderate drought on the respiratory capacity of bacteroids and the energy charge of the nodules. Expression of the FixP and FixO components of the cbb(3) oxidase was higher in bacteroids of the cbb(3)(+) strain than in those of the WT strain under all experimental conditions. The decline in sucrose synthase activity and the decrease in dicarboxylic acids provoked by moderate drought stress were more pronounced in nodules from plants inoculated with the WT strain than in those inoculated with the cbb(3)(+) strain. Taken together, these results suggest that inoculation of plants with a R. etli strain having enhanced expression of cbb(3) oxidase in bacteroids reduces the sensitivity of P. vulgaris-R. etli symbiosis to drought and can modulate carbon metabolism in nodules.	2012 Sep	Talbi, C; Talbi, C; Talbi; Sánchez, C; Sánchez, C; Sánchez; Hidalgo-Garcia, A; Hidalgo-Garcia, A; Hidalgo-Garcia; González, E M; González, EM; González; Arrese-Igor, C; Arrese-Igor, C; Arrese-Igor; Girard, L; Girard, L; Girard; Bedmar, E J; Bedmar, EJ; Bedmar; Delgado, M J; Delgado, MJ; Delgado	J Exp Bot
22858268	Rhizobium etli taxonomy revised with novel genomic data and analyses.	The taxonomic position of Phaseolus vulgaris rhizobial strains with available sequenced genomes was examined. Phylogenetic analyses with concatenated conserved genomic fragments accounting for over half of each genome showed that Rhizobium strains CIAT 652, Ch24-10 (newly reported genome) and CNPAF 512 constituted a well-supported group independent from Rhizobium etli CFN 42(T). DNA-DNA hybridization results indicated that CIAT 652, Ch24-10 and CNPAF 512 could correspond to R. etli, although the hybridization values were at the borderline that distinguishes different species. In contrast, experimental hybridization results were higher (over 80%) with Rhizobium phaseoli type strain ATCC 14482(T) in congruence to phylogenetic and ANIm analyses. The latter criterion allowed the reclassification of R. etli strains 8C-3 and Brasil5 as R. phaseoli. It was therefore concluded, based on all the evidence, that the CIAT 652, Ch24-10, and CNPAF 512 strains should be reclassified as R. phaseoli in spite of several common features linking them to R. etli. The R. phaseoli and R. etli speciation process seems to be a more recent event than the speciation that has occurred among other sister species, such as R. leguminosarum-R. etli or R. rhizogenes-R. tropici.	2012 Sep	López-Guerrero, Martha G; López-Guerrero, MG; López-Guerrero; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Velázquez, Encarna; Velázquez, E; Velázquez; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Acosta, José Luis; Acosta, JL; Acosta; Gónzalez, Victor; Gónzalez, V; Gónzalez; Martínez, Julio; Martínez, J; Martínez; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
22081714	Rhizobium grahamii sp. nov., from nodules of Dalea leporina, Leucaena leucocephala and Clitoria ternatea, and Rhizobium mesoamericanum sp. nov., from nodules of Phaseolus vulgaris, siratro, cowpea and Mimosa pudica.	Two novel related Rhizobium species, Rhizobium grahamii sp. nov. and Rhizobium mesoamericanum sp. nov., were identified by a polyphasic approach using DNA-DNA hybridization, whole-genome sequencing and phylogenetic and phenotypic characterization including nodulation of Leucaena leucocephala and Phaseolus vulgaris (bean). As similar bacteria were found in the Los Tuxtlas rainforest in Mexico and in Central America, we suggest the existence of a Mesoamerican microbiological corridor. The type strain of Rhizobium grahamii sp. nov. is CCGE 502(T) (= ATCC BAA-2124(T) = CFN 242(T) = Dal4(T) = HAMBI 3152(T)) and that of Rhizobium mesoamericanum sp. nov. is CCGE 501(T) (= ATCC BAA-2123(T) = HAMBI 3151(T) = CIP 110148(T) = 1847(T)).	2012 Sep	López-López, Aline; López-López, A; López-López; Rogel-Hernández, Marco A; Rogel-Hernández, MA; Rogel-Hernández; Barois, Isabelle; Barois, I; Barois; Ortiz Ceballos, Angel I; Ortiz Ceballos, AI; Ortiz Ceballos; Martínez, Julio; Martínez, J; Martínez; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
22836136	A complete workflow for the analysis of full-size ChIP-seq (and similar) data sets using peak-motifs.	This protocol explains how to use the online integrated pipeline 'peak-motifs' (http://rsat.ulb.ac.be/rsat/) to predict motifs and binding sites in full-size peak sets obtained by chromatin immunoprecipitation-sequencing (ChIP-seq) or related technologies. The workflow combines four time- and memory-efficient motif discovery algorithms to extract significant motifs from the sequences. Discovered motifs are compared with databases of known motifs to identify potentially bound transcription factors. Sequences are scanned to predict transcription factor binding sites and analyze their enrichment and positional distribution relative to peak centers. Peaks and binding sites are exported as BED tracks that can be uploaded into the University of California Santa Cruz (UCSC) genome browser for visualization in the genomic context. This protocol is illustrated with the analysis of a set of 6,000 peaks (8 Mb in total) bound by the Drosophila transcription factor Krüppel. The complete workflow is achieved in about 25 min of computational time on the Regulatory Sequence Analysis Tools (RSAT) Web server. This protocol can be followed in about 1 h.	2012 Jul	Thomas-Chollier, Morgane; Thomas-Chollier, M; Thomas-Chollier; Darbo, Elodie; Darbo, E; Darbo; Herrmann, Carl; Herrmann, C; Herrmann; Defrance, Matthieu; Defrance, M; Defrance; Thieffry, Denis; Thieffry, D; Thieffry; van Helden, Jacques; van Helden, J; van Helden	Nat Protoc
22318347	On the trail of EHEC/EAEC--unraveling the gene regulatory networks of human pathogenic Escherichia coli bacteria.	Pathogenic Escherichia coli, such as Enterohemorrhagic E. coli (EHEC) and Enteroaggregative E. coli (EAEC), are globally widespread bacteria. Some may cause the hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS). Varying strains cause epidemics all over the world. Recently, we observed an epidemic outbreak of a multi-resistant EHEC strain in Western Europe, mainly in Germany. The Robert Koch Institute reports >4300 infections and >50 deaths (July, 2011). Farmers lost several million EUR since the origin of infection was unclear. Here, we contribute to the currently ongoing research with a computer-aided study of EHEC transcriptional regulatory interactions, a network of genetic switches that control, for instance, pathogenicity, survival and reproduction of bacterial cells. Our strategy is to utilize knowledge of gene regulatory networks from the evolutionary relative E. coli K-12, a harmless strain mainly used for wet lab studies. In order to provide high-potential candidates for human pathogenic E. coli bacteria, such as EHEC, we developed the integrated online database and an analysis platform EhecRegNet. We utilize 3489 known regulations from E. coli K-12 for predictions of yet unknown gene regulatory interactions in 16 human pathogens. For these strains we predict 40,913 regulatory interactions. EhecRegNet is based on the identification of evolutionarily conserved regulatory sites within the DNA of the harmless E. coli K-12 and the pathogens. Identifying and characterizing EHEC's genetic control mechanism network on a large scale will allow for a better understanding of its survival and infection strategies. This will support the development of urgently needed new treatments. EhecRegNet is online via http://www.ehecregnet.de.	2012 Jul	Pauling, Josch; Pauling, J; Pauling; Röttger, Richard; Röttger, R; Röttger; Neuner, Andreas; Neuner, A; Neuner; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Kalaghatgi, Prabhav; Kalaghatgi, P; Kalaghatgi; Azevedo, Vasco; Azevedo, V; Azevedo; Tauch, Andreas; Tauch, A; Tauch; Pühler, Alfred; Pühler, A; Pühler; Baumbach, Jan; Baumbach, J; Baumbach	Integr Biol (Camb)
22738764	Cupriavidus alkaliphilus sp. nov., a new species associated with agricultural plants that grow in alkaline soils.	A group of 20 bacterial strains was isolated from the rhizosphere of different agricultural plants growing in alkaline soils in the northeast of Mexico. The phylogenetic analysis of the 16S rRNA gene sequence from four strains showed that this novel group belonged to the Cupriavidus genus, with C. taiwanensis (∼98.9%) and C. necator (∼98.8%) as the closest species. However, DNA-DNA reassociation values were less than 20%. The novel group did not fix nitrogen and lacked nifH and nodA genes, unlike C. taiwanensis. Whole-cell protein patterns were highly similar among the 20 strains but different from the closest Cupriavidus species. BOX-PCR patterns were distinct among the 20 strains but also differed from other Cupriavidus type species. The major cellular fatty acids from strains ASC-732(T) and SLV-2362 were C(16:0), C(18:1) ω7c/12t/9t and C(16:1) ω7c and/or C(15:0) iso 2OH. The major polar lipids consisted of phosphatidylglycerol, cardiolipin, phosphatidylethanolamine, 2-hydroxylated-phosphatidylethanolamine and an unknown aminolipid. The DNA G+C content of strain ASC-732(T) was 66.8mol%. All 20 strains grew in the presence of 5-10mgmL(-1) arsenic, 1mgmL(-1) zinc, and 0.1mgmL(-1) copper. Consequently, the group of strains was considered to represent a novel species for which the name Cupriavidus alkaliphilus sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is ASC-732(T) (=LMG 26294(T)=CIP 110330(T)).	2012 Jul	Estrada-de los Santos, Paulina; Estrada-de los Santos, P; Estrada-de los Santos; Martínez-Aguilar, Lourdes; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	Syst Appl Microbiol
22367406	Evolutionary genetics of the human Rh blood group system.	The evolutionary history of variation in the human Rh blood group system, determined by variants in the RHD and RHCE genes, has long been an unresolved puzzle in human genetics. Prior to medical treatments and interventions developed in the last century, the D-positive (RhD positive) children of D-negative (RhD negative) women were at risk for hemolytic disease of the newborn, if the mother produced anti-D antibodies following sensitization to the blood of a previous D-positive child. Given the deleterious fitness consequences of this disease, the appreciable frequencies in European populations of the responsible RHD gene deletion variant (for example, 0.43 in our study) seem surprising. In this study, we used new molecular and genomic data generated from four HapMap population samples to test the idea that positive selection for an as-of-yet unknown fitness benefit of the RHD deletion may have offset the otherwise negative fitness effects of hemolytic disease of the newborn. We found no evidence that positive natural selection affected the frequency of the RHD deletion. Thus, the initial rise to intermediate frequency of the RHD deletion in European populations may simply be explained by genetic drift/founder effect, or by an older or more complex sweep that we are insufficiently powered to detect. However, our simulations recapitulate previous findings that selection on the RHD deletion is frequency dependent and weak or absent near 0.5. Therefore, once such a frequency was achieved, it could have been maintained by a relatively small amount of genetic drift. We unexpectedly observed evidence for positive selection on the C allele of RHCE in non-African populations (on chromosomes with intact copies of the RHD gene) in the form of an unusually high F(                            ST                         ) value and the high frequency of a single haplotype carrying the C allele. RhCE function is not well understood, but the C/c antigenic variant is clinically relevant and can result in hemolytic disease of the newborn, albeit much less commonly and severely than that related to the D-negative blood type. Therefore, the potential fitness benefits of the RHCE C allele are currently unknown but merit further exploration.	2012 Jul	Perry, George H; Perry, GH; Perry; Xue, Yali; Xue, Y; Xue; Smith, Richard S; Smith, RS; Smith; Meyer, Wynn K; Meyer, WK; Meyer; Calışkan, Minal; Calışkan, M; Calışkan; Yanez-Cuna, Omar; Yanez-Cuna, O; Yanez-Cuna; Lee, Arthur S; Lee, AS; Lee; Gutiérrez-Arcelus, María; Gutiérrez-Arcelus, M; Gutiérrez-Arcelus; Ober, Carole; Ober, C; Ober; Hollox, Edward J; Hollox, EJ; Hollox; Tyler-Smith, Chris; Tyler-Smith, C; Tyler-Smith; Lee, Charles; Lee, C; Lee	Hum Genet
23113348	Polysaccharide-free nucleic acids and proteins of Abelmoschus esculentus for versatile molecular studies.	Abelmoschus esculentus (okra) is one of the polysaccharide rich crop plants. The polysaccharides interfere with nucleic acids and protein isolation thereby affecting the downstream molecular analysis. So, to understand the molecular systematics of okra, high quality DNA, RNA and proteins are essential. In this study we present a method for extracting genomic DNA, RNA and proteins from polysaccharide rich okra tissues. The conventional extraction procedures were integrated with purification treatments with pectinase, RNase and proteinase K, which improved the quality and quantity of DNA as well. Using SDS, additional washes with CIA and NaCl precipitation improved the RNA isolation both quantitatively and qualitatively. Finally, ammonium acetate mediated protein precipitation and re-solubilization increased the quality of total protein extracts from the okra leaves. All of the methods above not only eliminated the impurities but also improved the quality and quantity of nucleic acids and proteins. Further, we subjected these samples to versatile downstream molecular analyses such as restriction endonuclease digestion, RAPD, Southern, reverse transcription-PCR and Western analysis and were proved to be successful.	2012 Jul-Aug	Manoj-Kumar, A; Manoj-Kumar, A; Manoj-Kumar; Reddy, K N; Reddy, KN; Reddy; Manjulatha, M; Manjulatha, M; Manjulatha; Blanco, L; Blanco, L; Blanco	Mol Biol (Mosk)
22514263	Transfer of quinolone resistance gene qnrA1 to Escherichia coli through a 50 kb conjugative plasmid resulting from the splitting of a 300 kb plasmid.	To analyse the in vitro transfer of the qnrA1 gene by a 50 kb (pSZ50) self-transferable plasmid that derives from a 300 kb plasmid (pSZ300) and to determine the complete nucleotide sequence of plasmid pSZ50.	2012 Jul	Garza-Ramos, Ulises; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos; Barrios, Humberto; Barrios, H; Barrios; Hernandez-Vargas, Maria Jose; Hernandez-Vargas, MJ; Hernandez-Vargas; Rojas-Moreno, Teresa; Rojas-Moreno, T; Rojas-Moreno; Reyna-Flores, Fernando; Reyna-Flores, F; Reyna-Flores; Tinoco, Perla; Tinoco, P; Tinoco; Othon, Victor; Othon, V; Othon; Poirel, Laurent; Poirel, L; Poirel; Nordmann, Patrice; Nordmann, P; Nordmann; Cattoir, Vincent; Cattoir, V; Cattoir; Ruiz-Palacios, Guillermo; Ruiz-Palacios, G; Ruiz-Palacios; Fernandez, Jose Luis; Fernandez, JL; Fernandez; Santamaria, Rosa Isela; Santamaria, RI; Santamaria; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Castro, Natividad; Castro, N; Castro; Silva-Sanchez, Jesus; Silva-Sanchez, J; Silva-Sanchez	J Antimicrob Chemother
22192836	A Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1 acetylcholinesterase is encoded by the PA4921 gene and belongs to the SGNH hydrolase family.	Through the use of molecular and biochemical experiments and bioinformatic tools, this work demonstrates that the PA4921 gene of the Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1 genome is a gene responsible for cholinesterase (ChoE) activity. Similar to the acetylcholinesterase (AchE) of Zea mays, this ChoE belongs to the SGNH hydrolase family. In mature ChoE, i.e., without a signal peptide, (18)Ser, (78)Gly, (127)N, and (268)H are conserved aminoacyl residues. Acetylthiocholine (ATC) and propionylthiocholine (PTC) are substrates of this enzyme, but butyrylcholine is an inhibitor. The enzyme also catalyzes the hydrolysis of the artificial esters p-nitrophenyl propionate (pNPP) and p-nitrophenyl butyrate (pNPB) but with lower catalytic efficiency with respect to ATC or PTC. The second difference is that pNPP and pNPB did not produce inhibition at high substrate concentrations, as occurred with ATC and PTC. These differences plus preliminary biochemical and kinetic studies with alkylammonium compounds led us to propose that this enzyme is an acetylcholinesterase (AchE) or propionylcholinesterase. Studies performed with the purified recombinant enzyme indicated that the substrate saturation curves and the catalytic mechanism are similar to those properties described for mammalian AchEs. Therefore, the results of this work suggest that the P. aeruginosa ChoE is an AchE that may also be found in Pseudomonas fluorescens.	2012 Jun	Sánchez, Diego G; Sánchez, DG; Sánchez; Otero, Lisandro H; Otero, LH; Otero; Hernández, C Magdalena; Hernández, CM; Hernández; Serra, Ana L; Serra, AL; Serra; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Domenech, Carlos E; Domenech, CE; Domenech; Lisa, Angela T; Lisa, AT; Lisa	Microbiol Res
22685583	Metabolite adjustments in drought tolerant and sensitive soybean genotypes in response to water stress.	Soybean (Glycine max L.) is an important source of protein for human and animal nutrition, as well as a major source of vegetable oil. The soybean crop requires adequate water all through its growth period to attain its yield potential, and the lack of soil moisture at critical stages of growth profoundly impacts the productivity. In this study, utilizing (1)H NMR-based metabolite analysis combined with the physiological studies we assessed the effects of short-term water stress on overall growth, nitrogen fixation, ureide and proline dynamics, as well as metabolic changes in drought tolerant (NA5009RG) and sensitive (DM50048) genotypes of soybean in order to elucidate metabolite adjustments in relation to the physiological responses in the nitrogen-fixing plants towards water limitation. The results of our analysis demonstrated critical differences in physiological responses between these two genotypes, and identified the metabolic pathways that are affected by short-term water limitation in soybean plants. Metabolic changes in response to drought conditions highlighted pools of metabolites that play a role in the adjustment of metabolism and physiology of the soybean varieties to meet drought effects.	2012	Silvente, Sonia; Silvente, S; Silvente; Sobolev, Anatoly P; Sobolev, AP; Sobolev; Lara, Miguel; Lara, M; Lara	PLoS One
22065283	Isolation of the opdE gene that encodes for a new hydrolase of Enterobacter sp. capable of degrading organophosphorus pesticides.	Microbial enzymes that can hydrolyze organophosphorus compounds have been isolated, identified and characterized from different microbial species in order to use them in biodegradation of organophosphorus compounds. We isolated a bacterial strain Cons002 from an agricultural soil bacterial consortium, which can hydrolyze methyl-parathion (MP) and other organophosphate pesticides. HPLC analysis showed that strain Cons002 is capable of degrading pesticides MP, parathion and phorate. Pulsed-field gel electrophoresis and 16S rRNA amplification were performed for strain characterization and identification, respectively, showing that the strain Cons002 is related to the genus Enterobacter sp. which has a single chromosome of 4.6 Mb and has no plasmids. Genomic library was constructed from DNA of Enterobacter sp. Cons002. A gene called opdE (Organophosphate Degradation from Enterobacter) consists of 753 bp and encodes a protein of 25 kDa, which was isolated using activity methods. This gene opdE had no similarity to any genes reported to degrade organophosphates. When kanamycin-resistance cassette was placed in the gene opdE, hydrolase activity was suppressed and Enterobacter sp. Cons002 had no growth with MP as a nutrients source.	2012 Jun	Chino-Flores, Concepción; Chino-Flores, C; Chino-Flores; Dantán-González, Edgar; Dantán-González, E; Dantán-González; Vázquez-Ramos, Alejandra; Vázquez-Ramos, A; Vázquez-Ramos; Tinoco-Valencia, Raunel; Tinoco-Valencia, R; Tinoco-Valencia; Díaz-Méndez, Rafael; Díaz-Méndez, R; Díaz-Méndez; Sánchez-Salinas, Enrique; Sánchez-Salinas, E; Sánchez-Salinas; Castrejón-Godínez, Maria Luisa; Castrejón-Godínez, ML; Castrejón-Godínez; Ramos-Quintana, Fernando; Ramos-Quintana, F; Ramos-Quintana; Ortiz-Hernández, Maria Laura; Ortiz-Hernández, ML; Ortiz-Hernández	Biodegradation
22661980	MicroRNAs as regulators in plant metal toxicity response.	Metal toxicity is a major stress affecting crop production. This includes metals that are essential for plants (copper, iron, zinc, manganese), and non-essential metals (cadmium, aluminum, cobalt, mercury). A primary common effect of high concentrations of metal such as aluminum, copper, cadmium, or mercury is root growth inhibition. Metal toxicity triggers the accumulation of reactive oxygen species leading to damage of lipids, proteins, and DNA. The plants response to metal toxicity involves several biological processes that require fine and precise regulation at transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are 21 nucleotide non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. A miRNA, incorporated into a RNA-induced silencing complex, promotes cleavage of its target mRNA that is recognized by an almost perfect base complementarity. In plants, miRNA regulation is involved in development and also in biotic and abiotic stress responses. We review novel advances in identifying miRNAs related to metal toxicity responses and their potential role according to their targets. Most of the targets for plant metal-responsive miRNAs are transcription factors. Information about metal-responsive miRNAs in different plants points to important regulatory roles of miR319, miR390, miR393, and miR398. The target of miR319 is the TCP transcription factor, implicated in growth control. miR390 exerts its action through the biogenesis of trans-acting small interference RNAs that, in turn, regulate auxin responsive factors. miR393 targets the auxin receptors TIR1/AFBs and a bHLH transcription factor. Increasing evidence points to the crucial role of miR398 and its targets Cu/Zn superoxide dismutases in the control of the oxidative stress generated after high copper or iron exposure.	2012	Mendoza-Soto, Ana B; Mendoza-Soto, AB; Mendoza-Soto; Sánchez, Federico; Sánchez, F; Sánchez; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	Front Plant Sci
22615881	Comparative proteomic analysis of Aedes aegypti larval midgut after intoxication with Cry11Aa toxin from Bacillus thuringiensis.	Cry toxins produced by Bacillus thuringiensis bacteria are environmentally safe alternatives to control insect pests. They are pore-forming toxins that specifically affect cell permeability and cellular integrity of insect-midgut cells. In this work we analyzed the defensive response of Aedes aegypti larva to Cry11Aa toxin intoxication by proteomic and functional genomic analyses. Two dimensional differential in-gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE) was utilized to analyze proteomic differences among A. aegypti larvae intoxicated with different doses of Cry11Aa toxin compared to a buffer treatment. Spots with significant differential expression (p<0.05) were then identified by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), revealing 18 up-regulated and seven down-regulated proteins. The most abundant subcategories of differentially expressed proteins were proteins involved in protein turnover and folding, energy production, and cytoskeleton maintenance. We selected three candidate proteins based on their differential expression as representatives of the different functional categories to perform gene silencing by RNA interference and analyze their functional role. The heat shock protein HSP90 was selected from the proteins involved in protein turnover and chaperones; actin, was selected as representative of the cytoskeleton protein group, and ATP synthase subunit beta was selected from the group of proteins involved in energy production. When we affected the expression of ATP synthase subunit beta and actin by silencing with RNAi the larvae became hypersensitive to toxin action. In addition, we found that mosquito larvae displayed a resistant phenotype when the heat shock protein was silenced. These results provide insight into the molecular components influencing the defense to Cry toxin intoxication and facilitate further studies on the roles of identified genes.	2012	Cancino-Rodezno, Angeles; Cancino-Rodezno, A; Cancino-Rodezno; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Oppert, Cris; Oppert, C; Oppert; Castro, Julieta I; Castro, JI; Castro; Lanz-Mendoza, Humberto; Lanz-Mendoza, H; Lanz-Mendoza; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Evans, Amy E; Evans, AE; Evans; Gill, Sarjeet S; Gill, SS; Gill; Soberón, Mario; Soberón, M; Soberón; Jurat-Fuentes, Juan L; Jurat-Fuentes, JL; Jurat-Fuentes; Bravo, Alejandra; Bravo, A; Bravo	PLoS One
22109095	Change in land use alters the diversity and composition of Bradyrhizobium communities and led to the introduction of Rhizobium etli into the tropical rain forest of Los Tuxtlas (Mexico).	Nitrogen-fixing bacteria of the Bradyrhizobium genus are major symbionts of legume plants in American tropical forests, but little is known about the effects of deforestation and change in land use on their diversity and community structure. Forest clearing is followed by cropping of bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) and maize as intercropped plants in Los Tuxtlas tropical forest of Mexico. The identity of bean-nodulating rhizobia in this area is not known. Using promiscuous trap plants, bradyrhizobia were isolated from soil samples collected in Los Tuxtlas undisturbed forest, and in areas where forest was cleared and land was used as crop fields or as pastures, or where secondary forests were established. Rhizobia were also trapped by using bean plants. Bradyrhizobium strains were classified into genospecies by dnaK sequence analysis supported by recA, glnII and 16S-23S rDNA IGS loci analyses. A total of 29 genospecies were identified, 24 of which did not correspond to any described taxa. A reduction in Bradyrhizobium diversity was observed when forest was turned to crop fields or pastures. Diversity seemed to recover to primary forest levels in secondary forests that derived from abandoned crop fields or pastures. The shifts in diversity were not related to soil characteristics but seemingly to the density of nodulating legumes present at each land use system (LUS). Bradyrhizobium community composition in soils was dependent on land use; however, similarities were observed between crop fields and pastures but not among forest and secondary forest. Most Bradyrhizobium genospecies present in forest were not recovered or become rare in the other LUS. Rhizobium etli was found as the dominant bean-nodulating rhizobia present in crop fields and pastures, and evidence was found that this species was introduced in Los Tuxtlas forest.	2012 May	Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Rogel-Hernández, Marco A; Rogel-Hernández, MA; Rogel-Hernández; Lloret, Lourdes; Lloret, L; Lloret; López-López, Aline; López-López, A; López-López; Martínez, Julio; Martínez, J; Martínez; Barois, Isabelle; Barois, I; Barois; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Microb Ecol
21805195	Potentially pathogenic nontuberculous mycobacteria found in aquatic systems. Analysis from a reclaimed water and water distribution system in Mexico City.	We investigated the presence of nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) in three Mexican aquatic systems to evaluate the prevalence with the distribution of NTM species. Key physicochemical parameters of the water samples were determined to find correlations with the species' distributions. We used multilocus sequence analysis (MLSA) based on hsp65, rpoB, and 16S rRNA fragments to determine their taxonomic affiliations. NTM were recovered from water distribution systems and reclaimed water from the Mexico City Metropolitan Area (MCMA). The isolated species were associated with a temperature of 21°C and pH >7.7. The phylogenetic analysis showed that eight of the 14 different NTM strains were unambiguously classifiable: Mycobacterium peregrinum, M. nonchromogenicum (2), M. smegmatis (2), M. fortuitum, M. avium ssp. hominissuis, M. arupense, M. gordonae, and M. chitae. One strain was tentatively identified as M. mantenni/ scrofulaceum and another strain was related to M. porcinum/M. septicum. All NTM species identified in the water distribution system were also detected in the reclaimed water, but some species from the reclaimed water were not found in the water distribution systems. Two of the identified species found in the reclaimed water, M. avium and M. fortuitum, are considered important human opportunistic pathogens.	2012 May	Castillo-Rodal, A I; Castillo-Rodal, AI; Castillo-Rodal; Mazari-Hiriart, M; Mazari-Hiriart, M; Mazari-Hiriart; Lloret-Sánchez, L T; Lloret-Sánchez, LT; Lloret-Sánchez; Sachman-Ruiz, B; Sachman-Ruiz, B; Sachman-Ruiz; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; López-Vidal, Y; López-Vidal, Y; López-Vidal	Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis
21742822	Reclassification of Rhizobium tropici type A strains as Rhizobium leucaenae sp. nov.	Rhizobium tropici is a well-studied legume symbiont characterized by high genetic stability of the symbiotic plasmid and tolerance to tropical environmental stresses such as high temperature and low soil pH. However, high phenetic and genetic variabilities among R. tropici strains have been largely reported, with two subgroups, designated type A and B, already defined within the species. A polyphasic study comprising multilocus sequence analysis, phenotypic and genotypic characterizations, including DNA-DNA hybridization, strongly supported the reclassification of R. tropici type A strains as a novel species. Type A strains formed a well-differentiated clade that grouped with R. tropici, Rhizobium multihospitium, Rhizobium miluonense, Rhizobium lusitanum and Rhizobium rhizogenes in the phylogenies of the 16S rRNA, recA, gltA, rpoA, glnII and rpoB genes. Several phenotypic traits differentiated type A strains from all related taxa. The novel species, for which the name Rhizobium leucaenae sp. nov. is proposed, is a broad host range rhizobium being able to establish effective root-nodule symbioses with Leucaena leucocephala, Leucaena esculenta, common beans (Phaseolus vulgaris) and Gliricidia sepium. Strain CFN 299(T) ( = USDA 9039(T) = LMG 9517(T) = CECT 4844(T) = JCM 21088(T) = IAM 14230(T) = SEMIA 4083(T) = CENA 183(T) = UMR1026(T) = CNPSo 141(T)) is designated the type strain of Rhizobium leucaenae sp. nov.	2012 May	Ribeiro, Renan Augusto; Ribeiro, RA; Ribeiro; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; López-López, Aline; López-López, A; López-López; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Barcellos, Fernando Gomes; Barcellos, FG; Barcellos; Martínez, Julio; Martínez, J; Martínez; Thompson, Fabiano Lopes; Thompson, FL; Thompson; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Hungria, Mariangela; Hungria, M; Hungria	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
22343301	Transcriptional regulation of the assT-dsbL-dsbI gene cluster in Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi IMSS-1 depends on LeuO, H-NS, and specific growth conditions.	The assT gene encodes an arylsulfate sulfotransferase, an enzyme that catalyzes sulfuryl transfer from phenolic sulfate to a phenolic acceptor. In Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi IMSS-1, the assT gene is located upstream of the dsbL and dsbI genes, which are involved in a disulfide bond formation required for its activation. The assT-dsbL-dsbI gene cluster forms an operon transcribed by a LeuO-dependent promoter, in rich medium A (MA). Interestingly, in the absence of cloned leuO and in a ΔleuO background, two transcription start sites were detected for assT and two for dsbL-dsbI in minimal medium. The H-NS nucleoid protein repressed the expression of the assT-dsbL-dsbI LeuO-dependent operon, as well as of the assT transcriptional units. Thus, the expression of the assT-dsbL-dsbI gene cluster depends on the global regulatory proteins LeuO and H-NS, as well as on specific growth conditions.	2012 May	Gallego-Hernández, A L; Gallego-Hernández, AL; Gallego-Hernández; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; De la Cruz, M A; De la Cruz, MA; De la Cruz; Olvera, L; Olvera, L; Olvera; Morett, E; Morett, E; Morett; Medina-Aparicio, L; Medina-Aparicio, L; Medina-Aparicio; Ramírez-Trujillo, J A; Ramírez-Trujillo, JA; Ramírez-Trujillo; Vázquez, A; Vázquez, A; Vázquez; Fernández-Mora, M; Fernández-Mora, M; Fernández-Mora; Calva, E; Calva, E; Calva	J Bacteriol
22513097	New insights into Escherichia coli metabolism: carbon scavenging, acetate metabolism and carbon recycling responses during growth on glycerol.	Glycerol has enhanced its biotechnological importance since it is a byproduct of biodiesel synthesis. A study of Escherichia coli physiology during growth on glycerol was performed combining transcriptional-proteomic analysis as well as kinetic and stoichiometric evaluations in the strain JM101 and certain derivatives with important inactivated genes.	2012 Jul	Martínez-Gómez, Karla; Martínez-Gómez, K; Martínez-Gómez; Flores, Noemí; Flores, N; Flores; Castañeda, Héctor M; Castañeda, HM; Castañeda; Martínez-Batallar, Gabriel; Martínez-Batallar, G; Martínez-Batallar; Hernández-Chávez, Georgina; Hernández-Chávez, G; Hernández-Chávez; Ramírez, Octavio T; Ramírez, OT; Ramírez; Gosset, Guillermo; Gosset, G; Gosset; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Bolivar, Francisco; Bolivar, F; Bolivar	Microb Cell Fact
22333179	Functional and topological analysis of phosphatidylcholine synthase from Sinorhizobium meliloti.	Phosphatidylcholine (PC) is the major membrane-forming phospholipid in eukaryotes and is estimated to be present in about 15% of eubacteria. It can be synthesized in bacteria by either of two pathways, the phospholipid N-methylation pathway or the phosphatidylcholine synthase (Pcs) pathway. Pcs belongs to the CDP-alcohol phosphotransferase superfamily and synthesizes PC and CMP in one step from CDP-diacylglycerol and choline. In this study, we aligned sequences of characterized Pcs enzymes to identify conserved amino acid residues. Alanine scanning mutagenesis was performed on 55 of these conserved residues. The mutation of nine residues caused a drastic to complete loss (<20% of wild type activity) of Pcs activity. Six of these essential residues were subjected to further mutagenesis studies replacing them by amino acids with similar properties or size. A topological analysis of sinorhizobial Pcs showed the presence of eight transmembrane helices, with the C- and N-terminus located in the cytoplasm. The majority of the conserved residues is predicted to be either located within the cytoplasmic loops or on the cytoplasmic side of the membrane which can be expected for an enzyme using one membrane-associated and one soluble substrate.	2012 Apr	Solís-Oviedo, Rosa L; Solís-Oviedo, RL; Solís-Oviedo; Martínez-Morales, Fernando; Martínez-Morales, F; Martínez-Morales; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	Biochim Biophys Acta
22408242	Whole-genome sequence of Wolbachia strain wAlbB, an endosymbiont of tiger mosquito vector Aedes albopictus.	Although bacteria of the genus Wolbachia induced significant extended phenotypes to infected hosts, most molecular mechanisms involved are still unknown. To gain insight into the bacterial genetic determinants, we sequenced the whole genome of Wolbachia wAlbB strain, a commensal obligate intracellular of the tiger mosquito Aedes albopictus.	2012 Apr	Mavingui, Patrick; Mavingui, P; Mavingui; Valiente Moro, Claire; Valiente Moro, C; Valiente Moro; Tran-Van, Van; Tran-Van, V; Tran-Van; Wisniewski-Dyé, Florence; Wisniewski-Dyé, F; Wisniewski-Dyé; Raquin, Vincent; Raquin, V; Raquin; Minard, Guillaume; Minard, G; Minard; Tran, Florence-Hélène; Tran, FH; Tran; Voronin, Denis; Voronin, D; Voronin; Rouy, Zoé; Rouy, Z; Rouy; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Barbe, Valérie; Barbe, V; Barbe; González, Víctor; González, V; González	J Bacteriol
21850446	Common features of environmental and potentially beneficial plant-associated Burkholderia.	The genus Burkholderia comprises more than 60 species isolated from a wide range of niches. Although they have been shown to be diverse and ubiquitously distributed, most studies have thus far focused on the pathogenic species due to their clinical importance. However, the increasing number of recently described Burkholderia species associated with plants or with the environment has highlighted the division of the genus into two main clusters, as suggested by phylogenetical analyses. The first cluster includes human, animal, and plant pathogens, such as Burkholderia glumae, Burkholderia pseudomallei, and Burkholderia mallei, as well as the 17 defined species of the Burkholderia cepacia complex, while the other, more recently established cluster comprises more than 30 non-pathogenic species, which in most cases have been found to be associated with plants, and thus might be considered to be potentially beneficial. Several species from the latter group share characteristics that are of use when associating with plants, such as a quorum sensing system, the presence of nitrogen fixation and/or nodulation genes, and the ability to degrade aromatic compounds. This review examines the commonalities in this growing subgroup of Burkholderia species and discusses their prospective biotechnological applications.	2012 Feb	Suárez-Moreno, Zulma Rocío; Suárez-Moreno, ZR; Suárez-Moreno; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Coutinho, Bruna G; Coutinho, BG; Coutinho; Mendonça-Previato, Lucia; Mendonça-Previato, L; Mendonça-Previato; James, Euan K; James, EK; James; Venturi, Vittorio; Venturi, V; Venturi	Microb Ecol
22156162	RSAT peak-motifs: motif analysis in full-size ChIP-seq datasets.	ChIP-seq is increasingly used to characterize transcription factor binding and chromatin marks at a genomic scale. Various tools are now available to extract binding motifs from peak data sets. However, most approaches are only available as command-line programs, or via a website but with size restrictions. We present peak-motifs, a computational pipeline that discovers motifs in peak sequences, compares them with databases, exports putative binding sites for visualization in the UCSC genome browser and generates an extensive report suited for both naive and expert users. It relies on time- and memory-efficient algorithms enabling the treatment of several thousand peaks within minutes. Regarding time efficiency, peak-motifs outperforms all comparable tools by several orders of magnitude. We demonstrate its accuracy by analyzing data sets ranging from 4000 to 1,28,000 peaks for 12 embryonic stem cell-specific transcription factors. In all cases, the program finds the expected motifs and returns additional motifs potentially bound by cofactors. We further apply peak-motifs to discover tissue-specific motifs in peak collections for the p300 transcriptional co-activator. To our knowledge, peak-motifs is the only tool that performs a complete motif analysis and offers a user-friendly web interface without any restriction on sequence size or number of peaks.	2012 Feb	Thomas-Chollier, Morgane; Thomas-Chollier, M; Thomas-Chollier; Herrmann, Carl; Herrmann, C; Herrmann; Defrance, Matthieu; Defrance, M; Defrance; Sand, Olivier; Sand, O; Sand; Thieffry, Denis; Thieffry, D; Thieffry; van Helden, Jacques; van Helden, J; van Helden	Nucleic Acids Res
22144154	Extracting regulatory networks of Escherichia coli from RegulonDB.	RegulonDB contains the largest and currently best-known data set on transcriptional regulation in a single free-living organism, that of Escherichia coli K-12 (Gama-Castro et al. Nucleic Acids Res 36:D120-D124, 2008). This organized knowledge has been the gold standard for the implementation of bioinformatic predictive methods on gene regulation in bacteria (Collado-Vides et al. J Bacteriol 191:23-31, 2009). Given the complexity of different types of interactions, the difficulty of visualizing in a single figure of the whole network, and the different uses of this knowledge, we are making available different views of the genetic network. This chapter describes case studies about how to access these views, via precomputed files, web services and SQL, including sigma-gene relationships corresponding to transcription of alternative RNA polymerase holoenzyme promoters; as well as, transcription factor (TF)-genes, TF-operons, TF-TF, and TF-regulon interactions. 17.	2012	Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; López-Fuentes, Alejandra; López-Fuentes, A; López-Fuentes; García-Sotelo, Jair Santiago; García-Sotelo, JS; García-Sotelo; Porrón-Sotelo, Liliana; Porrón-Sotelo, L; Porrón-Sotelo; Solano, Hilda; Solano, H; Solano; Muñiz-Rascado, Luis; Muñiz-Rascado, L; Muñiz-Rascado; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Methods Mol Biol
22242036	Characterization of outer membrane vesicles from Brucella melitensis and protection induced in mice.	The outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) from smooth B. melitensis 16 M and a derived rough mutant, VTRM1 strain, were purified and characterized with respect to protein content and induction of immune responses in mice. Proteomic analysis showed 29 proteins present in OMVs from B. melitensis 16 M; some of them are well-known Brucella immunogens such as SOD, GroES, Omp31, Omp25, Omp19, bp26, and Omp16. OMVs from a rough VTRM1 induced significantly higher expression of IL-12, TNFα, and IFNγ genes in bone marrow dendritic cells than OMVs from smooth strain 16 M. Relative to saline control group, mice immunized intramuscularly with rough and smooth OMVs were protected from challenge with virulent strain B. melitensis 16 M just as well as the group immunized with live strain B. melitensis Rev1 (P < 0.005). Additionally, the levels of serum IgG2a increased in mice vaccinated with OMVs from rough strain VTRM1 consistent with the induction of cell-mediated immunity.	2012	Avila-Calderón, Eric Daniel; Avila-Calderón, ED; Avila-Calderón; Lopez-Merino, Ahidé; Lopez-Merino, A; Lopez-Merino; Jain, Neeta; Jain, N; Jain; Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta; López-Villegas, Edgar Oliver; López-Villegas, EO; López-Villegas; Sriranganathan, Nammalwar; Sriranganathan, N; Sriranganathan; Boyle, Stephen M; Boyle, SM; Boyle; Witonsky, Sharon; Witonsky, S; Witonsky; Contreras-Rodríguez, Araceli; Contreras-Rodríguez, A; Contreras-Rodríguez	Clin Dev Immunol
22806790	Production of prodigiosin and chitinases by tropical Serratia marcescens strains with potential to control plant pathogens.	The potential of three Serratia marcescens strains (CFFSUR-B2, CFFSUR-B3 and CFFSUR-B4) isolated from tropical regions in Mexico to inhibit the mycelial growth and conidial germination of Colletotrichum gloeosporioides, causal agent of fruit anthracnose, was evaluated. The ability of these strains to produce prodigiosin and chitinases when cultivated in oil seed-based media (peanut, sesame, soybean and castor bean) and in Luria-Bertani medium was determined. All of the strains exhibited similar fungal antagonistic activities and inhibited myceliar growth by more than 40% while inhibiting conidial germination by 81-89% (P = 0.01). The highest level of prodigiosin (40 μg/ml) was produced in the peanut-based medium while growth in soybean-based medium allowed the highest production of chitinases (56 units/ml), independent of the strain used. Strain CFFSUR-B2 grown in peanut medium was used to evaluate the effect of inoculum density and initial pH on metabolite production. The amount of prodigiosin produced increased with greater inoculum densities, with an initial density of 1 × 10(12) resulting in the highest production (60 μg/ml). Prodigiosin production was not affected by pH. The strains studied have the advantage of being adapted to tropical climates and are able to produce chitinases in the absence of chitin induction in vitro. These characteristics suggest their potential as biocontrol agents for fungal pathogens in tropical regions of the world.	2012 Jan	Gutiérrez-Román, Martha Ingrid; Gutiérrez-Román, MI; Gutiérrez-Román; Holguín-Meléndez, Francisco; Holguín-Meléndez, F; Holguín-Meléndez; Bello-Mendoza, Ricardo; Bello-Mendoza, R; Bello-Mendoza; Guillén-Navarro, Karina; Guillén-Navarro, K; Guillén-Navarro; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Huerta-Palacios, Graciela; Huerta-Palacios, G; Huerta-Palacios	World J Microbiol Biotechnol
22194828	Mathematical modeling and validation of the ergosterol pathway in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The de novo biosynthetic machinery for both sphingolipid and ergosterol production in yeast is localized in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and Golgi. The interconnections between the two pathways are still poorly understood, but they may be connected in specialized membrane domains, and specific knockouts strongly suggest that both routes have different layers of mutual control and are co-affected by drugs. With the goal of shedding light on the functional integration of the yeast sphingolipid-ergosterol (SL-E) pathway, we constructed a dynamic model of the ergosterol pathway using the guidelines of Biochemical Systems Theory (BST) (Savageau., J. theor. Biol., 25, 365-9, 1969). The resulting model was merged with a previous mathematical model of sphingolipid metabolism in yeast (Alvarez-Vasquez et al., J. theor. Biol., 226, 265-91, 2004; Alvarez-Vasquez et al., Nature433, 425-30, 2005). The S-system format within BST was used for analyses of consistency, stability, and sensitivity of the SL-E model, while the GMA format was used for dynamic simulations and predictions. Model validation was accomplished by comparing predictions from the model with published results on sterol and sterol-ester dynamics in yeast. The validated model was used to predict the metabolomic dynamics of the SL-E pathway after drug treatment. Specifically, we simulated the action of drugs affecting sphingolipids in the endoplasmic reticulum and studied changes in ergosterol associated with microdomains of the plasma membrane (PM).	2011	Alvarez-Vasquez, Fernando; Alvarez-Vasquez, F; Alvarez-Vasquez; Riezman, Howard; Riezman, H; Riezman; Hannun, Yusuf A; Hannun, YA; Hannun; Voit, Eberhard O; Voit, EO; Voit	PLoS One
22216014	Azospirillum genomes reveal transition of bacteria from aquatic to terrestrial environments.	Fossil records indicate that life appeared in marine environments ∼3.5 billion years ago (Gyr) and transitioned to terrestrial ecosystems nearly 2.5 Gyr. Sequence analysis suggests that "hydrobacteria" and "terrabacteria" might have diverged as early as 3 Gyr. Bacteria of the genus Azospirillum are associated with roots of terrestrial plants; however, virtually all their close relatives are aquatic. We obtained genome sequences of two Azospirillum species and analyzed their gene origins. While most Azospirillum house-keeping genes have orthologs in its close aquatic relatives, this lineage has obtained nearly half of its genome from terrestrial organisms. The majority of genes encoding functions critical for association with plants are among horizontally transferred genes. Our results show that transition of some aquatic bacteria to terrestrial habitats occurred much later than the suggested initial divergence of hydro- and terrabacterial clades. The birth of the genus Azospirillum approximately coincided with the emergence of vascular plants on land.	2011 Dec	Wisniewski-Dyé, Florence; Wisniewski-Dyé, F; Wisniewski-Dyé; Borziak, Kirill; Borziak, K; Borziak; Khalsa-Moyers, Gurusahai; Khalsa-Moyers, G; Khalsa-Moyers; Alexandre, Gladys; Alexandre, G; Alexandre; Sukharnikov, Leonid O; Sukharnikov, LO; Sukharnikov; Wuichet, Kristin; Wuichet, K; Wuichet; Hurst, Gregory B; Hurst, GB; Hurst; McDonald, W Hayes; McDonald, WH; McDonald; Robertson, Jon S; Robertson, JS; Robertson; Barbe, Valérie; Barbe, V; Barbe; Calteau, Alexandra; Calteau, A; Calteau; Rouy, Zoé; Rouy, Z; Rouy; Mangenot, Sophie; Mangenot, S; Mangenot; Prigent-Combaret, Claire; Prigent-Combaret, C; Prigent-Combaret; Normand, Philippe; Normand, P; Normand; Boyer, Mickaël; Boyer, M; Boyer; Siguier, Patricia; Siguier, P; Siguier; Dessaux, Yves; Dessaux, Y; Dessaux; Elmerich, Claudine; Elmerich, C; Elmerich; Condemine, Guy; Condemine, G; Condemine; Krishnen, Ganisan; Krishnen, G; Krishnen; Kennedy, Ivan; Kennedy, I; Kennedy; Paterson, Andrew H; Paterson, AH; Paterson; González, Victor; González, V; González; Mavingui, Patrick; Mavingui, P; Mavingui; Zhulin, Igor B; Zhulin, IB; Zhulin	PLoS Genet
22203548	Cupriavidus and Burkholderia species associated with agricultural plants that grow in alkaline soils.	The presence of Burkholderia, Cupriavidus, and Ralstonia species in northeastern Mexico was investigated. An analysis of the root surrounding soil from different agricultural plants led to the isolation of Burkholderia and Cupriavidus species but no Ralstonia strains. Most Cupriavidus species were unknown and grouped into two clusters according to ARDRA profiles. The 16S rRNA sequence analysis showed that the Cupriavidus isolates were highly related among them and with different Cupriavidus species with validated names. However, SDS-PAGE profiles were distinct among the different ARDRA profiles and to other Cupriavidus species examined, suggesting new species in the genus. This shows that Cupriavidus is more widely associated with plants than previously appreciated. The BCC isolate was 99% similar to B. cenocepacia by recA sequence analysis. Additionally, most Cupriavidus strains from the two largest groups grew on media containing up to 0.1 mg/ml of copper, 10.0 mg/ml arsenic and 1.0 mg/ml zinc. Burkholderia strains grew on media containing up to 10.0 mg/ml zinc, 5.0 mg/ml arsenic and 0.1 mg/ml copper.	2011 Dec	Estrada-de Los Santos, Paulina; Estrada-de Los Santos, P; Estrada-de Los Santos; Vacaseydel-Aceves, Nora Belinda; Vacaseydel-Aceves, NB; Vacaseydel-Aceves; Martínez-Aguilar, Lourdes; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar; Cruz-Hernández, María Antonia; Cruz-Hernández, MA; Cruz-Hernández; Mendoza-Herrera, Alberto; Mendoza-Herrera, A; Mendoza-Herrera; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	J Microbiol
22203561	Molecular characterization of chloranilic acid degradation in Pseudomonas putida TQ07.	Pentachlorophenol is the most toxic and recalcitrant chlorophenol because both aspects are directly proportional to the halogenation degree. Biological and abiotic pentachlorophenol degradation generates p-chloranil, which in neutral to lightly alkaline environmental conditions is hydrolyzed to chloranilic acid that present a violet-reddish coloration in aqueous solution. Several genes of the degradation pathway, cadR-cadCDX, as well as other uncharacterized genes (ORF5 and 6), were isolated from a chloranilic acid degrading bacterium, Pseudomonas putida strain TQ07. The disruption by random mutagenesis of the cadR and cadC genes in TQ07 resulted in a growth deficiency in the presence of chloranilic acid, indicating that these genes are essential for TQ07 growth with chloranilic acid as the sole carbon source. Complementation assays demonstrated that a transposon insertion in mutant CAD82 (cadC) had a polar effect on other genes contained in cosmid pLG3562. These results suggest that at least one of these genes, cadD and cadX, also takes part in chloranilic acid degradation. Based on molecular modeling and function prediction, we strongly suggest that CadC is a pyrone dicarboxylic acid hydrolase and CadD is an aldolase enzyme like dihydrodipicolinate synthase. The results of this study allowed us to propose a novel pathway that offers hypotheses on chloranilic acid degradation (an abiotic by-product of pentachlorophenol) by means of a very clear phenotype that is narrowly related to the capability of Pseudomonas putida strain TQ07 to degrade this benzoquinone.	2011 Dec	Treviño-Quintanilla, Luis G; Treviño-Quintanilla, LG; Treviño-Quintanilla; Freyre-González, Julio A; Freyre-González, JA; Freyre-González; Guillén-Garcés, Rosa A; Guillén-Garcés, RA; Guillén-Garcés; Olvera, Clarita; Olvera, C; Olvera	J Microbiol
21592712	Characterization of a novel biosurfactant producing Pseudomonas koreensis lineage that is endemic to Cuatro Ciénegas Basin.	The aim of this work is the taxonomic characterization of three biosurfactant-producing bacterial isolates from the Churince system at Cuatro Ciénegas Basin (CCB) in the Mexican State of Coahuila, and the study of the possible role of biosurfactant production in their ecology and evolution. We determined that these isolates belong to a Pseudomonas koreensis lineage endemic to CCB, using standard taxonomical techniques, phylogenetic analysis of three chromosomal loci and phenotypic characterization. This new lineage has the distinct capacity to produce a biosurfactant when compared with previously reported P. koreensis isolates recovered from agricultural soils in Korea. We present evidence suggesting that the biosurfactant secreted by CCB P. koreensis strains is involved in their ability to compete with a CCB Exiguobacterium aurantiacum strain (m5-66) used as a model organism in competition experiments. Furthermore, the ethyl acetate extract of culture supernatant of CCB P. koreensis strains results in growth inhibition not only of E. aurantiacum m5-66, but also of a Bacillus subtilis type strain (ATCC6633). Based on these results we propose that the production of biosurfactant could be of ecological importance and could play a role in the separation of the P. koreensis CCB lineage.	2011 Nov	Toribio, Jeiry; Toribio, J; Toribio; Escalante, Ana E; Escalante, AE; Escalante; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; González-González, Andrea; González-González, A; González-González; Zavala, Sergio; Zavala, S; Zavala; Souza, Valeria; Souza, V; Souza; Soberón-Chávez, Gloria; Soberón-Chávez, G; Soberón-Chávez	Syst Appl Microbiol
21926226	FadD is required for utilization of endogenous fatty acids released from membrane lipids.	FadD is an acyl coenzyme A (CoA) synthetase responsible for the activation of exogenous long-chain fatty acids (LCFA) into acyl-CoAs. Mutation of fadD in the symbiotic nitrogen-fixing bacterium Sinorhizobium meliloti promotes swarming motility and leads to defects in nodulation of alfalfa plants. In this study, we found that S. meliloti fadD mutants accumulated a mixture of free fatty acids during the stationary phase of growth. The composition of the free fatty acid pool and the results obtained after specific labeling of esterified fatty acids with a Δ5-desaturase (Δ5-Des) were in agreement with membrane phospholipids being the origin of the released fatty acids. Escherichia coli fadD mutants also accumulated free fatty acids released from membrane lipids in the stationary phase. This phenomenon did not occur in a mutant of E. coli with a deficient FadL fatty acid transporter, suggesting that the accumulation of fatty acids in fadD mutants occurs inside the cell. Our results indicate that, besides the activation of exogenous LCFA, in bacteria FadD plays a major role in the activation of endogenous fatty acids released from membrane lipids. Furthermore, expression analysis performed with S. meliloti revealed that a functional FadD is required for the upregulation of genes involved in fatty acid degradation and suggested that in the wild-type strain, the fatty acids released from membrane lipids are degraded by β-oxidation in the stationary phase of growth.	2011 Nov	Pech-Canul, Ángel; Pech-Canul, Á; Pech-Canul; Nogales, Joaquina; Nogales, J; Nogales; Miranda-Molina, Alfonso; Miranda-Molina, A; Miranda-Molina; Álvarez, Laura; Álvarez, L; Álvarez; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Soto, María José; Soto, MJ; Soto; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara	J Bacteriol
21830951	Legume-nodulating betaproteobacteria: diversity, host range, and future prospects.	Rhizobia form specialized nodules on the roots of legumes (family Fabaceae) and fix nitrogen in exchange for carbon from the host plant. Although the majority of legumes form symbioses with members of genus Rhizobium and its relatives in class Alphaproteobacteria, some legumes, such as those in the large genus Mimosa, are nodulated predominantly by betaproteobacteria in the genera Burkholderia and Cupriavidus. The principal centers of diversity of these bacteria are in central Brazil and South Africa. Molecular phylogenetic studies have shown that betaproteobacteria have existed as legume symbionts for approximately 50 million years, and that, although they have a common origin, the symbiosis genes in both subclasses have evolved separately since then. Additionally, some species of genus Burkholderia, such as B. phymatum, are highly promiscuous, effectively nodulating several important legumes, including common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris). In contrast to genus Burkholderia, only one species of genus Cupriavidus (C. taiwanensis) has so far been shown to nodulate legumes. The recent availability of the genome sequences of C. taiwanensis, B. phymatum, and B. tuberum has paved the way for a more detailed analysis of the evolutionary and mechanistic differences between nodulating strains of alpha- and betaproteobacteria. Initial analyses of genome sequences have suggested that plant-associated Burkholderia spp. have lower G+C contents than Burkholderia spp. that are opportunistic human pathogens, thus supporting previous suggestions that the plant- and human-associated groups of Burkholderia actually belong in separate genera.	2011 Nov	Gyaneshwar, Prasad; Gyaneshwar, P; Gyaneshwar; Hirsch, Ann M; Hirsch, AM; Hirsch; Moulin, Lionel; Moulin, L; Moulin; Chen, Wen-Ming; Chen, WM; Chen; Elliott, Geoffrey N; Elliott, GN; Elliott; Bontemps, Cyril; Bontemps, C; Bontemps; Estrada-de Los Santos, Paulina; Estrada-de Los Santos, P; Estrada-de Los Santos; Gross, Eduardo; Gross, E; Gross; Dos Reis, Fabio Bueno; Dos Reis, FB; Dos Reis; Sprent, Janet I; Sprent, JI; Sprent; Young, J Peter W; Young, JP; Young; James, Euan K; James, EK; James	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
22004448	Genomic lineages of Rhizobium etli revealed by the extent of nucleotide polymorphisms and low recombination.	Most of the DNA variations found in bacterial species are in the form of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), but there is some debate regarding how much of this variation comes from mutation versus recombination. The nitrogen-fixing symbiotic bacteria Rhizobium etli is highly variable in both genomic structure and gene content. However, no previous report has provided a detailed genomic analysis of this variation at nucleotide level or the role of recombination in generating diversity in this bacterium. Here, we compared draft genomic sequences versus complete genomic sequences to obtain reliable measures of genetic diversity and then estimated the role of recombination in the generation of genomic diversity among Rhizobium etli.	2011 Oct	Acosta, José L; Acosta, JL; Acosta; Eguiarte, Luis E; Eguiarte, LE; Eguiarte; Santamaría, Rosa I; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; González, Víctor; González, V; González	BMC Evol Biol
21995705	Genetic relationships among Italian and Mexican maize-rhizosphere Burkholderia cepacia complex (BCC) populations belonging to Burkholderia cenocepacia IIIB and BCC6 group.	A close association between maize roots and Burkholderia cepacia complex (BCC) bacteria has been observed in different locations globally. In this study we investigated by MultiLocus Restriction Typing (MLRT) the genetic diversity and relationships among Burkholderia cenocepacia IIIB and BCC6 populations associated with roots of maize plants cultivated in geographically distant countries (Italy and Mexico), in order to provide new insights into their population structure, evolution and ecology.	2011 Oct	Bevivino, Annamaria; Bevivino, A; Bevivino; Costa, Barbara; Costa, B; Costa; Cantale, Cristina; Cantale, C; Cantale; Cesarini, Silvia; Cesarini, S; Cesarini; Chiarini, Luigi; Chiarini, L; Chiarini; Tabacchioni, Silvia; Tabacchioni, S; Tabacchioni; Caballero-Mellado, Jesus; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Dalmastri, Claudia; Dalmastri, C; Dalmastri	BMC Microbiol
21981907	Genomic and proteomic analyses of Mycobacterium bovis BCG Mexico 1931 reveal a diverse immunogenic repertoire against tuberculosis infection.	Studies of Mycobacterium bovis BCG strains used in different countries and vaccination programs show clear variations in the genomes and immune protective properties of BCG strains. The aim of this study was to characterise the genomic and immune proteomic profile of the BCG 1931 strain used in Mexico.	2011 Oct	Orduña, Patricia; Orduña, P; Orduña; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; de León, Samuel Ponce; de León, SP; de León; Arvizu, Adriana; Arvizu, A; Arvizu; Hernández-González, Ismael L; Hernández-González, IL; Hernández-González; Mendoza-Hernández, Guillermo; Mendoza-Hernández, G; Mendoza-Hernández; López-Vidal, Yolanda; López-Vidal, Y; López-Vidal	BMC Genomics
21970442	Sequence variability of Rhizobiales orthologs and relationship with physico-chemical characteristics of proteins.	Chromosomal orthologs can reveal the shared ancestral gene set and their evolutionary trends. Additionally, physico-chemical properties of encoded proteins could provide information about functional adaptation and ecological niche requirements.	2011 Oct	Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta; Guerrero, Gabriela; Guerrero, G; Guerrero; Aguilar, Alejandro; Aguilar, A; Aguilar; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	Biol Direct
21876154	Context-dependent individualization of nucleotides and virtual genomic hybridization allow the precise location of human SNPs.	We have entered the era of individual genomic sequencing, and can already see exponential progress in the field. It is of utmost importance to exclude false-positive variants from reported datasets. However, because of the nature of the used algorithms, this task has not been optimized to the required level of precision. This study presents a unique strategy for identifying SNPs, called COIN-VGH, that largely minimizes the presence of false-positives in the generated data. The algorithm was developed using the X-chromosome-specific regions from the previously sequenced genomes of Craig Venter and James Watson. The algorithm is based on the concept that a nucleotide can be individualized if it is analyzed in the context of its surrounding genomic sequence. COIN-VGH consists of defining the most comprehensive set of nucleotide strings of a defined length that map with 100% identity to a unique position within the human reference genome (HRG). Such set is used to retrieve sequence reads from a query genome (QG), allowing the production of a genomic landscape that represents a draft HRG-guided assembly of the QG. This landscape is analyzed for specific signatures that indicate the presence of SNPs. The fidelity of the variation signature was assessed using simulation experiments by virtually altering the HRG at defined positions. Finally, the signature regions identified in the HRG and in the QG reads are aligned and the precise nature and position of the corresponding SNPs are detected. The advantages of COIN-VGH over previous algorithms are discussed.	2011 Sep	Reyes, José; Reyes, J; Reyes; Gómez-Romero, Laura; Gómez-Romero, L; Gómez-Romero; Ibarra-Soria, Ximena; Ibarra-Soria, X; Ibarra-Soria; Palacios-Flores, Kim; Palacios-Flores, K; Palacios-Flores; Arriola, Luis R; Arriola, LR; Arriola; Wences, Alejandro; Wences, A; Wences; García, Delfino; García, D; García; Boege, Margareta; Boege, M; Boege; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; Flores, Margarita; Flores, M; Flores; Palacios, Rafael; Palacios, R; Palacios	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
21595554	Environmental mycobacteria: a threat to human health?	In many cases, bacterial pathogens are close relatives to nonpathogens. Pathogens seem to be limited lineages within nonpathogenic bacteria. Nonpathogenic isolates are generally more diverse and widespread in the environment and it is generally considered that environmental bacteria do not pose a risk to human health as clinical isolates do; this may not be the case with mycobacteria, but environmental mycobacteria have not been well studied. It is documented that several environmental mycobacteria constitute a source for human infections. Diverse mycobacterial environmental isolates are rarely involved in human disease. Environmental mycobacteria may have a role in degradation of different compounds. Environmental mycobacteria have had a long interaction with humans, maybe as long as the human species, and may have contributed to human evolution.	2011 Sep	Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Martinez-Romero, Julio C; Martinez-Romero, JC; Martinez-Romero; Reyes-Prieto, Mariana; Reyes-Prieto, M; Reyes-Prieto; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Martinez-Romero, Esperanza; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero	DNA Cell Biol
21801415	Systems biology of bacterial nitrogen fixation: high-throughput technology and its integrative description with constraint-based modeling.	Bacterial nitrogen fixation is the biological process by which atmospheric nitrogen is uptaken by bacteroids located in plant root nodules and converted into ammonium through the enzymatic activity of nitrogenase. In practice, this biological process serves as a natural form of fertilization and its optimization has significant implications in sustainable agricultural programs. Currently, the advent of high-throughput technology supplies with valuable data that contribute to understanding the metabolic activity during bacterial nitrogen fixation. This undertaking is not trivial, and the development of computational methods useful in accomplishing an integrative, descriptive and predictive framework is a crucial issue to decoding the principles that regulated the metabolic activity of this biological process.	2011 Jul	Resendis-Antonio, Osbaldo; Resendis-Antonio, O; Resendis-Antonio; Hernández, Magdalena; Hernández, M; Hernández; Salazar, Emmanuel; Salazar, E; Salazar; Contreras, Sandra; Contreras, S; Contreras; Batallar, Gabriel Martínez; Batallar, GM; Batallar; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación	BMC Syst Biol
21707055	The dioxygenase-encoding olsD gene from Burkholderia cenocepacia causes the hydroxylation of the amide-linked fatty acyl moiety of ornithine-containing membrane lipids.	Burkholderia cenocepacia is an important opportunistic pathogen, and one of the most striking features of the Burkholderia genus is the collection of polar lipids present in its membrane, including phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) and ornithine-containing lipids (OLs), as well as the 2-hydroxylated derivatives of PE and OLs (2-OH-PE and 2-OH-OLs, respectively), which differ from the standard versions by virtue of the presence of a hydroxyl group at C2 (2-OH) of an esterified fatty acyl residue. Similarly, a lipid A-esterified myristoyl group from Salmonella typhimurium can have a 2-hydroxy modification that is due to the LpxO enzyme. We thus postulated that 2-hydroxylation of 2-OH-OLs might be catalyzed by a novel dioxygenase homologue of LpxO. In B. cenocepacia, we have now identified two open reading frames (BCAM1214 and BCAM2401) homologous to LpxO from S. typhimurium. The introduction of bcam2401 (designated olsD) into Sinorhizobium meliloti leads to the formation of one new lipid and in B. cenocepacia of two new lipids. Surprisingly, the lipid modifications on OLs due to OlsD occur on the amide-linked fatty acyl chain. This is the first report of a hydroxyl modification of OLs on the amide-linked fatty acyl moiety. Formation of hydroxylated OLs occurs only when the biosynthesis pathway for nonmodified standard OLs is intact. The hydroxyl modification of OLs on the amide-linked fatty acyl moiety occurs only under acid stress conditions. An assay has been developed for the OlsD dioxygenase, and an initial characterization of the enzyme is presented.	2011 Jul	González-Silva, Napoleón; González-Silva, N; González-Silva; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Reyes-Lamothe, Rodrigo; Reyes-Lamothe, R; Reyes-Lamothe; Taylor, Adrian M; Taylor, AM; Taylor; Sumpton, David; Sumpton, D; Sumpton; Thomas-Oates, Jane; Thomas-Oates, J; Thomas-Oates; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	Biochemistry
21425924	PvRACK1 loss-of-function impairs cell expansion and morphogenesis in Phaseolus vulgaris L. root nodules.	Receptor for activated C kinase (RACK1) is a highly conserved, eukaryotic protein of the WD-40 repeat family. Its peculiar β-propeller structure allows its interaction with multiple proteins in various plant signal-transduction pathways, including those arising from hormone responses, development, and environmental stress. During Phaseolus vulgaris root development, RACK1 (PvRACK1) mRNA expression was induced by auxins, abscissic acid, cytokinin, and gibberellic acid. In addition, during P. vulgaris nodule development, PvRACK1 mRNA was highly accumulated at 12 to 15 days postinoculation, suggesting an important role after nodule meristem initiation and Rhizobium nodule infection. PvRACK1 transcript accumulation was downregulated by a specific RNA interference construct which was expressed in transgenic roots of composite plants of P. vulgaris inoculated with Rhizobium tropici. PvRACK1 downregulated transcript levels were monitored by quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction analysis in individual transgenic roots and nodules. We observed a clear phenotype in PvRACK1-knockdown nodules, in which nodule number and nodule cell expansion were impaired, resulting in altered nodule size. Microscopic analysis indicated that, in PvRACK1-knockdown nodules, infected and uninfected cells were considerably smaller (80 and 60%, respectively) than in control nodules. In addition, noninfected cells and symbiosomes in silenced nodules showed significant defects in membrane structure under electron microscopy analysis. These findings indicate that PvRACK1 has a pivotal role in cell expansion and in symbiosome and bacteroid integrity during nodule development.	2011 Jul	Islas-Flores, Tania; Islas-Flores, T; Islas-Flores; Guillén, Gabriel; Guillén, G; Guillén; Alvarado-Affantranger, Xóchitl; Alvarado-Affantranger, X; Alvarado-Affantranger; Lara-Flores, Miguel; Lara-Flores, M; Lara-Flores; Sánchez, Federico; Sánchez, F; Sánchez; Villanueva, Marco A; Villanueva, MA; Villanueva	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
21715389	RSAT 2011: regulatory sequence analysis tools.	RSAT (Regulatory Sequence Analysis Tools) comprises a wide collection of modular tools for the detection of cis-regulatory elements in genome sequences. Thirteen new programs have been added to the 30 described in the 2008 NAR Web Software Issue, including an automated sequence retrieval from EnsEMBL (retrieve-ensembl-seq), two novel motif discovery algorithms (oligo-diff and info-gibbs), a 100-times faster version of matrix-scan enabling the scanning of genome-scale sequence sets, and a series of facilities for random model generation and statistical evaluation (random-genome-fragments, random-motifs, random-sites, implant-sites, sequence-probability, permute-matrix). Our most recent work also focused on motif comparison (compare-matrices) and evaluation of motif quality (matrix-quality) by combining theoretical and empirical measures to assess the predictive capability of position-specific scoring matrices. To process large collections of peak sequences obtained from ChIP-seq or related technologies, RSAT provides a new program (peak-motifs) that combines several efficient motif discovery algorithms to predict transcription factor binding motifs, match them against motif databases and predict their binding sites. Availability (web site, stand-alone programs and SOAP/WSDL (Simple Object Access Protocol/Web Services Description Language) web services): http://rsat.ulb.ac.be/rsat/.	2011 Jul	Thomas-Chollier, Morgane; Thomas-Chollier, M; Thomas-Chollier; Defrance, Matthieu; Defrance, M; Defrance; Medina-Rivera, Alejandra; Medina-Rivera, A; Medina-Rivera; Sand, Olivier; Sand, O; Sand; Herrmann, Carl; Herrmann, C; Herrmann; Thieffry, Denis; Thieffry, D; Thieffry; van Helden, Jacques; van Helden, J; van Helden	Nucleic Acids Res
21718544	The replication origin of a repABC plasmid.	repABC operons are present on large, low copy-number plasmids and on some secondary chromosomes in at least 19 α-proteobacterial genera, and are responsible for the replication and segregation properties of these replicons. These operons consist, with some variations, of three genes: repA, repB, and repC. RepA and RepB are involved in plasmid partitioning and in the negative regulation of their own transcription, and RepC is the limiting factor for replication. An antisense RNA encoded between the repB-repC genes modulates repC expression.	2011 Jun	Cervantes-Rivera, Ramón; Cervantes-Rivera, R; Cervantes-Rivera; Pedraza-López, Francisco; Pedraza-López, F; Pedraza-López; Pérez-Segura, Gabriela; Pérez-Segura, G; Pérez-Segura; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	BMC Microbiol
21702991	The conjugative plasmid of a bean-nodulating Sinorhizobium fredii strain is assembled from sequences of two Rhizobium plasmids and the chromosome of a Sinorhizobium strain.	Bean-nodulating Rhizobium etli originated in Mesoamerica, while soybean-nodulating Sinorhizobium fredii evolved in East Asia. S. fredii strains, such as GR64, have been isolated from bean nodules in Spain, suggesting the occurrence of conjugative transfer events between introduced and native strains. In R. etli CFN42, transfer of the symbiotic plasmid (pRet42d) requires cointegration with the endogenous self-transmissible plasmid pRet42a. Aiming at further understanding the generation of diversity among bean nodulating strains, we analyzed the plasmids of S. fredii GR64: pSfr64a and pSfr64b (symbiotic plasmid).	2011 Jun	Cervantes, Laura; Cervantes, L; Cervantes; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Santamaría, Rosa Isela; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom	BMC Microbiol
21696634	Proteomic patterns of cervical cancer cell lines, a network perspective.	Cervical cancer is a major mortality factor in the female population. This neoplastic is an excellent model for studying the mechanisms involved in cancer maintenance, because the Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) is the etiology factor in most cases. With the purpose of characterizing the effects of malignant transformation in cellular activity, proteomic studies constitute a reliable way to monitor the biological alterations induced by this disease. In this contextual scheme, a systemic description that enables the identification of the common events between cell lines of different origins, is required to distinguish the essence of carcinogenesis.	2011 Jun	Higareda-Almaraz, Juan Carlos; Higareda-Almaraz, JC; Higareda-Almaraz; Enríquez-Gasca, María del Rocío; Enríquez-Gasca, Mdel R; Enríquez-Gasca; Hernández-Ortiz, Magdalena; Hernández-Ortiz, M; Hernández-Ortiz; Resendis-Antonio, Osbaldo; Resendis-Antonio, O; Resendis-Antonio; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara	BMC Syst Biol
21479798	Anaplerotic function of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase in Bradyrhizobium japonicum USDA110.	In bacteria, anaplerotic carbon fixation necessary for growth on carbon sources that are metabolized to three-carbon intermediates is provided by the activity of pyruvate carboxylase (PYC) and/or phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PPC). In contrast to other rhizobia, which encode only one of these enzymes in their genomes, Bradyrhizobium japonicum USDA110 encodes both. Streptavidin-HRP western blot analysis of B. japonicum extracts demonstrated the presence of a biotin-containing protein whose molecular mass was indistinguishable from those of PYCs produced by Sinorhizobium meliloti and Rhizobium etli. Sequence analysis of the possible B. japonicum PYC revealed the lack of a pyruvate binding site as well as other characteristics indicating that the enzyme is non-functional, and PPC activity, but not PYC activity, was detectible in extracts prepared from strain USDA110. A B. japonicum cosmid genomic library was used to clone the ppc by functional complementation of S. meliloti pyc mutant RmF991. S. meliloti RmF991-carrying plasmids containing the B. japonicum ppc regained the ability to grow with glucose as a carbon source and produced PPC activity. The cloned ppc gene was inactivated by insertion mutagenesis and recombined into the USDA110 genome. The resulting ppc mutant was essentially devoid of PPC activity and grew poorly with glucose as carbon source in comparison to the wild-type strain. These data indicate that B. japonicum utilizes PPC, and not PYC, as an anaplerotic enzyme for growth on carbon sources metabolized to three-carbon intermediates.	2011 Jun	Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn	Curr Microbiol
23761284	Predominant nifH transcript phylotypes related to Rhizobium rosettiformans in field-grown sugarcane plants and in Norway spruce.	Although some sugarcane cultivars may benefit substantially from biological nitrogen fixation (BNF), the responsible bacteria have been not identified yet. Here, we examined the active diazotrophic bacterial community in sugarcane roots from Africa and America by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR using broad-range nifH-specific primers. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) profiles obtained from sugarcane showed a low diversity at all sample locations with one phylotype amounting up to 100% of the nifH transcripts. This major phylotype has 93.9-99.6% DNA identity to the partial nifH sequence from a strain affiliated with Rhizobium rosettiformans. In addition, nifH transcripts of this phylotype were also detected in spruce roots sampled in Germany, where they made up 91% of nifH transcripts detected. In contrast, in control soil or shoot samples two distinct nifH transcript sequences distantly related to nifH from Sulfurospirillum multivorans or Bradyrhizobium elkanii, respectively, were predominant. These results suggest that R. rosettiformans is involved in root-associated nitrogen fixation with sugarcane and spruce, plants that do not form root-nodule symbioses.	2011 Jun	Burbano, Claudia Sofía; Burbano, CS; Burbano; Liu, Yuan; Liu, Y; Liu; Rösner, Kim Leonie; Rösner, KL; Rösner; Reis, Veronica Massena; Reis, VM; Reis; Caballero-Mellado, Jesus; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Reinhold-Hurek, Barbara; Reinhold-Hurek, B; Reinhold-Hurek; Hurek, Thomas; Hurek, T; Hurek	Environ Microbiol Rep
21569245	Transcriptional profiling of fetal hypothalamic TRH neurons.	During murine hypothalamic development, different neuroendocrine cell phenotypes are generated in overlapping periods; this suggests that cell-type specific developmental programs operate to achieve complete maturation. A balance between programs that include cell proliferation, cell cycle withdrawal as well as epigenetic regulation of gene expression characterizes neurogenesis. Thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) is a peptide that regulates energy homeostasis and autonomic responses. To better understand the molecular mechanisms underlying TRH neuron development, we performed a genome wide study of its transcriptome during fetal hypothalamic development.	2011 May	Guerra-Crespo, Magdalena; Guerra-Crespo, M; Guerra-Crespo; Pérez-Monter, Carlos; Pérez-Monter, C; Pérez-Monter; Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Gutiérrez-Rios, Rosa María; Gutiérrez-Rios, RM; Gutiérrez-Rios; Joseph-Bravo, Patricia; Joseph-Bravo, P; Joseph-Bravo; Pérez-Martínez, Leonor; Pérez-Martínez, L; Pérez-Martínez; Charli, Jean-Louis; Charli, JL; Charli	BMC Genomics
21310789	A comparative genome analysis of the RpoS sigmulon shows a high diversity of responses and origins.	The stationary-phase response mediated by the RpoS sigma factor (σ(S), σ³⁸) has been widely studied as a general mechanism of activation of highly diverse genes that maintain cell viability. In bacteria, genes for diverse functions have been associated with this response, showing that bacteria use a large number of functions to contend with adverse conditions in their environment. However, little is known about how the genes have been functionally recruited in diverse organisms. In this work, we address the analysis of genes regulated by σ(S), based on a comparative genomic-scale analysis considering four versatile bacterial species that represent different lifestyles and taxonomic groups, Escherichia coli K-12, Geobacter sulfurreducens, Borrelia burgdorferi and Bacillus subtilis, as well as the extent of conservation in bacterial genomes, as a means of assessing the evolution of this sigmulon across all organisms completely sequenced. The analysis presented here shows that genes associated with the σ(S) response have been recruited from diverse regulons to achieve a global response. In addition, and based on the distribution of orthologues, we show a group of genes that is highly conserved among all organisms, mainly associated with glycerol metabolism, as well as diverse functional genes recruited in a lineage-specific manner.	2011 May	Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Pérez-Rueda, Ernesto; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda	Microbiology (Reading)
21463532	Housekeeping genes essential for pantothenate biosynthesis are plasmid-encoded in Rhizobium etli and Rhizobium leguminosarum.	A traditional concept in bacterial genetics states that housekeeping genes, those involved in basic metabolic functions needed for maintenance of the cell, are encoded in the chromosome, whereas genes required for dealing with challenging environmental conditions are located in plasmids. Exceptions to this rule have emerged from genomic sequence data of bacteria with multipartite genomes. The genome sequence of R. etli CFN42 predicts the presence of panC and panB genes clustered together on the 642 kb plasmid p42f and a second copy of panB on plasmid p42e. They encode putative pantothenate biosynthesis enzymes (pantoate-β-alanine ligase and 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoate hydroxymethyltransferase, respectively). Due to their ubiquitous distribution and relevance in the central metabolism of the cell, these genes are considered part of the core genome; thus, their occurrence in a plasmid is noteworthy. In this study we investigate the contribution of these genes to pantothenate biosynthesis, examine whether their presence in plasmids is a prevalent characteristic of the Rhizobiales with multipartite genomes, and assess the possibility that the panCB genes may have reached plasmids by horizontal gene transfer.	2011 Apr	Villaseñor, Tomás; Villaseñor, T; Villaseñor; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; Dávalos, Araceli; Dávalos, A; Dávalos; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Los Santos, Alejandro García-de; Los Santos, AG; Los Santos	BMC Microbiol
21306854	Symbiovars in rhizobia reflect bacterial adaptation to legumes.	Legume specificity is encoded in rhizobial genetic elements that may be transferred among species and genera. Dissemination (by lateral transfer) of gene assemblies dictating host range accounts for the existence of the same biological variant (biovar) in distinct microbiological species. Different alternative biovars may exist in a single species expanding their adaptation to different niches (legume nodules). A review of all reported biovars is presented. Instead of the term biovar, symbiotic variant (symbiovar) is proposed as a parallel term to pathovar in pathogenic bacteria. Symbiovars should be determined based on the symbiotic capabilities in plant hosts, distinguished by the differences in host range and supported by symbiotic gene sequence information.	2011 Apr	Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Martinez Romero, Esperanza; Martinez Romero, E; Martinez Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
21205018	Hydroxylated ornithine lipids increase stress tolerance in Rhizobium tropici CIAT899.	Ornithine lipids (OLs) are widespread among Gram-negative bacteria. Their basic structure consists of a 3-hydroxy fatty acyl group attached in amide linkage to the α-amino group of ornithine and a second fatty acyl group ester-linked to the 3-hydroxy position of the first fatty acid. OLs can be hydroxylated within the secondary fatty acyl moiety and this modification has been related to increased stress tolerance. Rhizobium tropici, a nodule-forming α-proteobacterium known for its stress tolerance, forms four different OLs. Studies of the function of these OLs have been hampered due to lack of knowledge about their biosynthesis. Here we describe that OL biosynthesis increases under acid stress and that OLs are enriched in the outer membrane. Using a functional expression screen, the OL hydroxylase OlsE was identified, which in combination with the OL hydroxylase OlsC is responsible for the synthesis of modified OLs in R. tropici. Unlike described OL hydroxylations, the OlsE-catalysed hydroxylation occurs within the ornithine moiety. Mutants deficient in OlsE or OlsC and double mutants deficient in OlsC/OlsE were characterized. R. tropici mutants deficient in OlsC-mediated OL hydroxylation are more susceptible to acid and temperature stress. All three mutants lacking OL hydroxylases are affected during symbiosis.	2011 Mar	Vences-Guzmán, Miguel Á; Vences-Guzmán, MÁ; Vences-Guzmán; Guan, Ziqiang; Guan, Z; Guan; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; González-Silva, Napoleón; González-Silva, N; González-Silva; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	Mol Microbiol
21217003	Plasmids with a chromosome-like role in rhizobia.	Replicon architecture in bacteria is commonly comprised of one indispensable chromosome and several dispensable plasmids. This view has been enriched by the discovery of additional chromosomes, identified mainly by localization of rRNA and/or tRNA genes, and also by experimental demonstration of their requirement for cell growth. The genome of Rhizobium etli CFN42 is constituted by one chromosome and six large plasmids, ranging in size from 184 to 642 kb. Five of the six plasmids are dispensable for cell viability, but plasmid p42e is unusually stable. One possibility to explain this stability would be that genes on p42e carry out essential functions, thus making it a candidate for a secondary chromosome. To ascertain this, we made an in-depth functional analysis of p42e, employing bioinformatic tools, insertional mutagenesis, and programmed deletions. Nearly 11% of the genes in p42e participate in primary metabolism, involving biosynthetic functions (cobalamin, cardiolipin, cytochrome o, NAD, and thiamine), degradation (asparagine and melibiose), and septum formation (minCDE). Synteny analysis and incompatibility studies revealed highly stable replicons equivalent to p42e in content and gene order in other Rhizobium species. A systematic deletion analysis of p42e allowed the identification of two genes (RHE_PE00001 and RHE_PE00024), encoding, respectively, a hypothetical protein with a probable winged helix-turn-helix motif and a probable two-component sensor histidine kinase/response regulator hybrid protein, which are essential for growth in rich medium. These data support the proposal that p42e and its homologous replicons (pA, pRL11, pRLG202, and pR132502) merit the status of secondary chromosomes.	2011 Mar	Landeta, Cristina; Landeta, C; Landeta; Dávalos, Araceli; Dávalos, A; Dávalos; Cevallos, Miguel Ángel; Cevallos, MÁ; Cevallos; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero	J Bacteriol
21565630	Extended-spectrum β-lactamase-producing enterobacteriaceae causing nosocomial infections in Mexico. A retrospective and multicenter study.	Extended-spectrum β-lactamase (ESBLs) production is still the most frequent mechanism of resistance to cephalosporins in gram-negative bacteria. The aim of the study was to identify the types of ESBL-producing Enterobacteriaceae clinical isolates causing nosocomial infections in Mexico.	2011 Feb	Silva-Sanchez, Jesus; Silva-Sanchez, J; Silva-Sanchez; Garza-Ramos, Jesus Ulises; Garza-Ramos, JU; Garza-Ramos; Reyna-Flores, Fernando; Reyna-Flores, F; Reyna-Flores; Sánchez-Perez, Alejandro; Sánchez-Perez, A; Sánchez-Perez; Rojas-Moreno, Teresa; Rojas-Moreno, T; Rojas-Moreno; Andrade-Almaraz, Veronica; Andrade-Almaraz, V; Andrade-Almaraz; Pastrana, Josefina; Pastrana, J; Pastrana; Castro-Romero, Julieta Ivone; Castro-Romero, JI; Castro-Romero; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Barrios, Humberto; Barrios, H; Barrios; Cervantes, Carlos; Cervantes, C; Cervantes	Arch Med Res
21043576	Regulation and symbiotic role of nirK and norC expression in Rhizobium etli.	Rhizobium etli CFN42 is unable to use nitrate for respiration and lacks nitrate reductase activity as well as the nap or nar genes encoding respiratory nitrate reductase. However, genes encoding proteins closely related to denitrification enzymes, the norCBQD gene cluster and a novel nirKnirVnnrRnnrU operon are located on pCFN42f. In this study, we carried out a genetic and functional characterization of the reductases encoded by the R. etli nirK and norCB genes. By gene fusion expression analysis in free-living conditions, we determined that R. etli regulates its response to nitric oxide through NnrR via the microaerobic expression mediated by FixKf. Interestingly, expression of the norC and nirK genes displays a different level of dependence for NnrR. A null mutation in nnrR causes a drastic drop in the expression of norC, while nirK still exhibits significant expression. A thorough analysis of the nirK regulatory region revealed that this gene is under both positive and negative regulation. Functional analysis carried out in this work demonstrated that reduction of nitrite and nitric oxide in R. etli requires the reductase activities encoded by the norCBQD and nirK genes. Levels of nitrosylleghemoglobin complexes in bean plants exposed to nitrate are increased in a norC mutant but decreased in a nirK mutant. The nitrate-induced decline in nitrogenase-specific activity observed in both the wild type and the norC mutant was not detected in the nirK mutant. This data indicate that bacterial nitrite reductase is an important contributor to the formation of NO in bean nodules in response to nitrate.	2011 Feb	Gómez-Hernández, Nicolás; Gómez-Hernández, N; Gómez-Hernández; Reyes-González, Alma; Reyes-González, A; Reyes-González; Sánchez, Cristina; Sánchez, C; Sánchez; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Delgado, María J; Delgado, MJ; Delgado; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
20923783	Theoretical and empirical quality assessment of transcription factor-binding motifs.	Position-specific scoring matrices (PSSMs) are routinely used to predict transcription factor (TF)-binding sites in genome sequences. However, their reliability to predict novel binding sites can be far from optimum, due to the use of a small number of training sites or the inappropriate choice of parameters when building the matrix or when scanning sequences with it. Measures of matrix quality such as E-value and information content rely on theoretical models, and may fail in the context of full genome sequences. We propose a method, implemented in the program 'matrix-quality', that combines theoretical and empirical score distributions to assess reliability of PSSMs for predicting TF-binding sites. We applied 'matrix-quality' to estimate the predictive capacity of matrices for bacterial, yeast and mouse TFs. The evaluation of matrices from RegulonDB revealed some poorly predictive motifs, and allowed us to quantify the improvements obtained by applying multi-genome motif discovery. Interestingly, the method reveals differences between global and specific regulators. It also highlights the enrichment of binding sites in sequence sets obtained from high-throughput ChIP-chip (bacterial and yeast TFs), and ChIP-seq and experiments (mouse TFs). The method presented here has many applications, including: selecting reliable motifs before scanning sequences; improving motif collections in TFs databases; evaluating motifs discovered using high-throughput data sets.	2011 Feb	Medina-Rivera, Alejandra; Medina-Rivera, A; Medina-Rivera; Abreu-Goodger, Cei; Abreu-Goodger, C; Abreu-Goodger; Thomas-Chollier, Morgane; Thomas-Chollier, M; Thomas-Chollier; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; van Helden, Jacques; van Helden, J; van Helden	Nucleic Acids Res
21223599	Salmonella Typhimurium ST213 is associated with two types of IncA/C plasmids carrying multiple resistance determinants.	Salmonella Typhimurium ST213 was first detected in the Mexican Typhimurium population in 2001. It is associated with a multi-drug resistance phenotype and a plasmid-borne blaCMY-2 gene conferring resistance to extended-spectrum cephalosporins. The objective of the current study was to examine the association between the ST213 genotype and blaCMY-2 plasmids.	2011 Jan	Wiesner, Magdalena; Wiesner, M; Wiesner; Calva, Edmundo; Calva, E; Calva; Fernández-Mora, Marcos; Fernández-Mora, M; Fernández-Mora; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Campos, Freddy; Campos, F; Campos; Zaidi, Mussaret B; Zaidi, MB; Zaidi; Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva	BMC Microbiol
21075924	argC Orthologs from Rhizobiales show diverse profiles of transcriptional efficiency and functionality in Sinorhizobium meliloti.	Several factors can influence ortholog replacement between closely related species. We evaluated the transcriptional expression and metabolic performance of ortholog substitution complementing a Sinorhizobium meliloti argC mutant with argC from Rhizobiales (Agrobacterium tumefaciens, Rhizobium etli, and Mesorhizobium loti). The argC gene is necessary for the synthesis of arginine, an amino acid that is central to protein and cellular metabolism. Strains were obtained carrying plasmids with argC orthologs expressed under the speB and argC (S. meliloti) and lac (Escherichia coli) promoters. Complementation analysis was assessed by growth, transcriptional activity, enzymatic activity, mRNA levels, specific detection of ArgC proteomic protein, and translational efficiency. The argC orthologs performed differently in each complementation, reflecting the diverse factors influencing gene expression and the ability of the ortholog product to function in a foreign metabolic background. Optimal complementation was directly related to sequence similarity with S. meliloti, and was inversely related to species signature, with M. loti argC showing the poorest performance, followed by R. etli and A. tumefaciens. Different copy numbers of genes and amounts of mRNA and protein were produced, even with genes transcribed from the same promoter, indicating that coding sequences play a role in the transcription and translation processes. These results provide relevant information for further genomic analyses and suggest that orthologous gene substitutions between closely related species are not completely functionally equivalent.	2011 Jan	Díaz, Rafael; Díaz, R; Díaz; Vargas-Lagunas, Carmen; Vargas-Lagunas, C; Vargas-Lagunas; Villalobos, Miguel Angel; Villalobos, MA; Villalobos; Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
21097882	EcoCyc: a comprehensive database of Escherichia coli biology.	EcoCyc (http://EcoCyc.org) is a comprehensive model organism database for Escherichia coli K-12 MG1655. From the scientific literature, EcoCyc captures the functions of individual E. coli gene products; their regulation at the transcriptional, post-transcriptional and protein level; and their organization into operons, complexes and pathways. EcoCyc users can search and browse the information in multiple ways. Recent improvements to the EcoCyc Web interface include combined gene/protein pages and a Regulation Summary Diagram displaying a graphical overview of all known regulatory inputs to gene expression and protein activity. The graphical representation of signal transduction pathways has been updated, and the cellular and regulatory overviews were enhanced with new functionality. A specialized undergraduate teaching resource using EcoCyc is being developed.	2011 Jan	Keseler, Ingrid M; Keseler, IM; Keseler; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Peralta-Gil, Martin; Peralta-Gil, M; Peralta-Gil; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Muñiz-Rascado, Luis; Muñiz-Rascado, L; Muñiz-Rascado; Bonavides-Martinez, César; Bonavides-Martinez, C; Bonavides-Martinez; Paley, Suzanne; Paley, S; Paley; Krummenacker, Markus; Krummenacker, M; Krummenacker; Altman, Tomer; Altman, T; Altman; Kaipa, Pallavi; Kaipa, P; Kaipa; Spaulding, Aaron; Spaulding, A; Spaulding; Pacheco, John; Pacheco, J; Pacheco; Latendresse, Mario; Latendresse, M; Latendresse; Fulcher, Carol; Fulcher, C; Fulcher; Sarker, Malabika; Sarker, M; Sarker; Shearer, Alexander G; Shearer, AG; Shearer; Mackie, Amanda; Mackie, A; Mackie; Paulsen, Ian; Paulsen, I; Paulsen; Gunsalus, Robert P; Gunsalus, RP; Gunsalus; Karp, Peter D; Karp, PD; Karp	Nucleic Acids Res
21051347	RegulonDB version 7.0: transcriptional regulation of Escherichia coli K-12 integrated within genetic sensory response units (Gensor Units).	RegulonDB (http://regulondb.ccg.unam.mx/) is the primary reference database of the best-known regulatory network of any free-living organism, that of Escherichia coli K-12. The major conceptual change since 3 years ago is an expanded biological context so that transcriptional regulation is now part of a unit that initiates with the signal and continues with the signal transduction to the core of regulation, modifying expression of the affected target genes responsible for the response. We call these genetic sensory response units, or Gensor Units. We have initiated their high-level curation, with graphic maps and superreactions with links to other databases. Additional connectivity uses expandable submaps. RegulonDB has summaries for every transcription factor (TF) and TF-binding sites with internal symmetry. Several DNA-binding motifs and their sizes have been redefined and relocated. In addition to data from the literature, we have incorporated our own information on transcription start sites (TSSs) and transcriptional units (TUs), obtained by using high-throughput whole-genome sequencing technologies. A new portable drawing tool for genomic features is also now available, as well as new ways to download the data, including web services, files for several relational database manager systems and text files including BioPAX format.	2011 Jan	Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Peralta-Gil, Martin; Peralta-Gil, M; Peralta-Gil; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Muñiz-Rascado, Luis; Muñiz-Rascado, L; Muñiz-Rascado; Solano-Lira, Hilda; Solano-Lira, H; Solano-Lira; Jimenez-Jacinto, Verónica; Jimenez-Jacinto, V; Jimenez-Jacinto; Weiss, Verena; Weiss, V; Weiss; García-Sotelo, Jair S; García-Sotelo, JS; García-Sotelo; López-Fuentes, Alejandra; López-Fuentes, A; López-Fuentes; Porrón-Sotelo, Liliana; Porrón-Sotelo, L; Porrón-Sotelo; Alquicira-Hernández, Shirley; Alquicira-Hernández, S; Alquicira-Hernández; Medina-Rivera, Alejandra; Medina-Rivera, A; Medina-Rivera; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; Alquicira-Hernández, Kevin; Alquicira-Hernández, K; Alquicira-Hernández; Martínez-Adame, Ruth; Martínez-Adame, R; Martínez-Adame; Bonavides-Martínez, César; Bonavides-Martínez, C; Bonavides-Martínez; Miranda-Ríos, Juan; Miranda-Ríos, J; Miranda-Ríos; Huerta, Araceli M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Mendoza-Vargas, Alfredo; Mendoza-Vargas, A; Mendoza-Vargas; Collado-Torres, Leonardo; Collado-Torres, L; Collado-Torres; Taboada, Blanca; Taboada, B; Taboada; Vega-Alvarado, Leticia; Vega-Alvarado, L; Vega-Alvarado; Olvera, Maricela; Olvera, M; Olvera; Olvera, Leticia; Olvera, L; Olvera; Grande, Ricardo; Grande, R; Grande; Morett, Enrique; Morett, E; Morett; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
20942974	The extracellular proteome of Rhizobium etli CE3 in exponential and stationary growth phase.	The extracellular proteome or secretome of symbiotic bacteria like Rhizobium etli is presumed to be a key element of their infection strategy and survival. Rhizobia infect the roots of leguminous plants and establish a mutually beneficial symbiosis. To find out the possible role of secreted proteins we analyzed the extracellular proteome of R. etli CE3 in the exponential and stationary growth phases in minimal medium, supplemented with succinate-ammonium.	2010 Oct	Meneses, Niurka; Meneses, N; Meneses; Mendoza-Hernández, Guillermo; Mendoza-Hernández, G; Mendoza-Hernández; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación	Proteome Sci
24031569	Characterization of Bacillus isolates of potato rhizosphere from andean soils of Peru and their potential PGPR characteristics.	Bacillus spp. are well known rhizosphere residents of many crops and usually show plant growth promoting (PGP) activities that include biocontrol capacity against some phytopatogenic fungi. Potato crops in the Andean Highlands of Peru face many nutritional and phytophatogenic problems that have a significant impact on production. In this context is important to investigate the natural presence of these microorganisms in the potato rhizosphere and propose a selective screening to find promising PGP strains. In this study, sixty three Bacillus strains isolated from the rhizosphere of native potato varieties growing in the Andean highlands of Peru were screened for in vitro antagonism against Rhizoctonia solani and Fusarium solani. A high prevalence (68%) of antagonists against R. solani was found. Ninety one percent of those strains also inhibited the growth of F. solani. The antagonistic strains were also tested for other plant growth promotion activities. Eighty one percent produced some level of the auxin indole-3-acetic acid, and 58% solubilized tricalcium phosphate. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that the majority of the strains belonged to the B. amyloliquefaciens species, while strains Bac17M11, Bac20M1 and Bac20M2 may correspond to a putative new Bacillus species. The results suggested that the rhizosphere of native potatoes growing in their natural habitat in the Andes is a rich source of Bacillus fungal antagonists, which have a potential to be used in the future as PGP inoculants to improve potato crop. 	2010 Oct	Calvo, Pamela; Calvo, P; Calvo; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Zúñiga, Doris; Zúñiga, D; Zúñiga	Braz J Microbiol
20675442	Evolutionary dynamics of insertion sequences in relation to the evolutionary histories of the chromosome and symbiotic plasmid genes of Rhizobium etli populations.	Insertion sequences (IS) are mobile genetic elements that are distributed in many prokaryotes. In particular, in the genomes of the symbiotic nitrogen-fixing bacteria collectively known as rhizobia, IS are fairly abundant in plasmids or chromosomal islands that carry the genes needed for symbiosis. Here, we report an analysis of the distribution and genetic conservation of the IS found in the genome of Rhizobium etli CFN42 in a collection of 87 Rhizobium strains belonging to populations with different geographical origins. We used PCR to generate presence/absence profiles of the 39 IS found in R. etli CFN42 and evaluated whether the IS were located in consistent genomic contexts. We found that the IS from the symbiotic plasmid were frequently present in the analyzed strains, whereas the chromosomal IS were observed less frequently. We then examined the evolutionary dynamics of these strains based on a population genetic analysis of two chromosomal housekeeping genes (glyA and dnaB) and three symbiotic sequences (nodC and the two IS elements). Our results indicate that the IS contained within the symbiotic plasmid have a higher degree of genomic context conservation, lower nucleotide diversity and genetic differentiation, and fewer recombination events than the chromosomal housekeeping genes. These results suggest that the R. etli populations diverged recently in Mexico, that the symbiotic plasmid also had a recent origin, and that the IS elements have undergone a process of cyclic infection and expansion.	2010 Oct	Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Hernández-González, Ismael; Hernández-González, I; Hernández-González; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Santamaría, Rosa I; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Souza, Valeria; Souza, V; Souza; Young, J Peter W; Young, JP; Young; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; González, Víctor; González, V; González	Appl Environ Microbiol
20822874	Phaseolus vulgaris seed-borne endophytic community with novel bacterial species such as Rhizobium endophyticum sp. nov.	The bacterial endophytic community present in different Phaseolus vulgaris (bean) cultivars was analyzed by 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequences of cultured isolates derived from surface disinfected roots and immature seeds. Isolated endophytes from tissue-macerates belonged to over 50 species in 24 different genera and some isolates from Acinetobacter, Bacillus, Enterococcus, Nocardioides, Paracoccus, Phyllobacterium, and Sphingomonas seem to correspond to new lineages. Phytate solubilizing bacteria were identified among Acinetobacter, Bacillus and Streptomyces bean isolates, phytate is the most abundant reserve of phosphorus in bean and in other seeds. Endophytic rhizobia were not capable of forming nodules. A novel rhizobial species Rhizobium endophyticum was recognized on the basis of DNA-DNA hybridization, sequence of 16S rRNA, recA, rpoB, atpD, dnaK genes, plasmid profiles, and phenotypic characteristics. R. endophyticum is capable of solubilizing phytate, the type strain is CCGE2052 (ATCC BAA-2116; HAMBI 3153) that became fully symbiotic by acquiring the R. tropici CFN299 symbiotic plasmid.	2010 Oct	López-López, Aline; López-López, A; López-López; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Martínez-Romero, Julio; Martínez-Romero, J; Martínez-Romero; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
20829833	The BioPAX community standard for pathway data sharing.	Biological Pathway Exchange (BioPAX) is a standard language to represent biological pathways at the molecular and cellular level and to facilitate the exchange of pathway data. The rapid growth of the volume of pathway data has spurred the development of databases and computational tools to aid interpretation; however, use of these data is hampered by the current fragmentation of pathway information across many databases with incompatible formats. BioPAX, which was created through a community process, solves this problem by making pathway data substantially easier to collect, index, interpret and share. BioPAX can represent metabolic and signaling pathways, molecular and genetic interactions and gene regulation networks. Using BioPAX, millions of interactions, organized into thousands of pathways, from many organisms are available from a growing number of databases. This large amount of pathway data in a computable form will support visualization, analysis and biological discovery.	2010 Sep	Demir, Emek; Demir, E; Demir; Cary, Michael P; Cary, MP; Cary; Paley, Suzanne; Paley, S; Paley; Fukuda, Ken; Fukuda, K; Fukuda; Lemer, Christian; Lemer, C; Lemer; Vastrik, Imre; Vastrik, I; Vastrik; Wu, Guanming; Wu, G; Wu; D'Eustachio, Peter; D'Eustachio, P; D'Eustachio; Schaefer, Carl; Schaefer, C; Schaefer; Luciano, Joanne; Luciano, J; Luciano; Schacherer, Frank; Schacherer, F; Schacherer; Martinez-Flores, Irma; Martinez-Flores, I; Martinez-Flores; Hu, Zhenjun; Hu, Z; Hu; Jimenez-Jacinto, Veronica; Jimenez-Jacinto, V; Jimenez-Jacinto; Joshi-Tope, Geeta; Joshi-Tope, G; Joshi-Tope; Kandasamy, Kumaran; Kandasamy, K; Kandasamy; Lopez-Fuentes, Alejandra C; Lopez-Fuentes, AC; Lopez-Fuentes; Mi, Huaiyu; Mi, H; Mi; Pichler, Elgar; Pichler, E; Pichler; Rodchenkov, Igor; Rodchenkov, I; Rodchenkov; Splendiani, Andrea; Splendiani, A; Splendiani; Tkachev, Sasha; Tkachev, S; Tkachev; Zucker, Jeremy; Zucker, J; Zucker; Gopinath, Gopal; Gopinath, G; Gopinath; Rajasimha, Harsha; Rajasimha, H; Rajasimha; Ramakrishnan, Ranjani; Ramakrishnan, R; Ramakrishnan; Shah, Imran; Shah, I; Shah; Syed, Mustafa; Syed, M; Syed; Anwar, Nadia; Anwar, N; Anwar; Babur, Ozgün; Babur, O; Babur; Blinov, Michael; Blinov, M; Blinov; Brauner, Erik; Brauner, E; Brauner; Corwin, Dan; Corwin, D; Corwin; Donaldson, Sylva; Donaldson, S; Donaldson; Gibbons, Frank; Gibbons, F; Gibbons; Goldberg, Robert; Goldberg, R; Goldberg; Hornbeck, Peter; Hornbeck, P; Hornbeck; Luna, Augustin; Luna, A; Luna; Murray-Rust, Peter; Murray-Rust, P; Murray-Rust; Neumann, Eric; Neumann, E; Neumann; Ruebenacker, Oliver; Ruebenacker, O; Ruebenacker; Reubenacker, Oliver; Reubenacker, O; Reubenacker; Samwald, Matthias; Samwald, M; Samwald; van Iersel, Martijn; van Iersel, M; van Iersel; Wimalaratne, Sarala; Wimalaratne, S; Wimalaratne; Allen, Keith; Allen, K; Allen; Braun, Burk; Braun, B; Braun; Whirl-Carrillo, Michelle; Whirl-Carrillo, M; Whirl-Carrillo; Cheung, Kei-Hoi; Cheung, KH; Cheung; Dahlquist, Kam; Dahlquist, K; Dahlquist; Finney, Andrew; Finney, A; Finney; Gillespie, Marc; Gillespie, M; Gillespie; Glass, Elizabeth; Glass, E; Glass; Gong, Li; Gong, L; Gong; Haw, Robin; Haw, R; Haw; Honig, Michael; Honig, M; Honig; Hubaut, Olivier; Hubaut, O; Hubaut; Kane, David; Kane, D; Kane; Krupa, Shiva; Krupa, S; Krupa; Kutmon, Martina; Kutmon, M; Kutmon; Leonard, Julie; Leonard, J; Leonard; Marks, Debbie; Marks, D; Marks; Merberg, David; Merberg, D; Merberg; Petri, Victoria; Petri, V; Petri; Pico, Alex; Pico, A; Pico; Ravenscroft, Dean; Ravenscroft, D; Ravenscroft; Ren, Liya; Ren, L; Ren; Shah, Nigam; Shah, N; Shah; Sunshine, Margot; Sunshine, M; Sunshine; Tang, Rebecca; Tang, R; Tang; Whaley, Ryan; Whaley, R; Whaley; Letovksy, Stan; Letovksy, S; Letovksy; Buetow, Kenneth H; Buetow, KH; Buetow; Rzhetsky, Andrey; Rzhetsky, A; Rzhetsky; Schachter, Vincent; Schachter, V; Schachter; Sobral, Bruno S; Sobral, BS; Sobral; Dogrusoz, Ugur; Dogrusoz, U; Dogrusoz; McWeeney, Shannon; McWeeney, S; McWeeney; Aladjem, Mirit; Aladjem, M; Aladjem; Birney, Ewan; Birney, E; Birney; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Goto, Susumu; Goto, S; Goto; Hucka, Michael; Hucka, M; Hucka; Le Novère, Nicolas; Le Novère, N; Le Novère; Maltsev, Natalia; Maltsev, N; Maltsev; Pandey, Akhilesh; Pandey, A; Pandey; Thomas, Paul; Thomas, P; Thomas; Wingender, Edgar; Wingender, E; Wingender; Karp, Peter D; Karp, PD; Karp; Sander, Chris; Sander, C; Sander; Bader, Gary D; Bader, GD; Bader	Nat Biotechnol
20811631	Modeling core metabolism in cancer cells: surveying the topology underlying the Warburg effect.	Alterations on glucose consumption and biosynthetic activity of amino acids, lipids and nucleotides are metabolic changes for sustaining cell proliferation in cancer cells. Irrevocable evidence of this fact is the Warburg effect which establishes that cancer cells prefers glycolysis over oxidative phosphorylation to generate ATP. Regulatory action over metabolic enzymes has opened a new window for designing more effective anti-cancer treatments. This enterprise is not trivial and the development of computational models that contribute to identifying potential enzymes for breaking the robustness of cancer cells is a priority.	2010 Aug	Resendis-Antonio, Osbaldo; Resendis-Antonio, O; Resendis-Antonio; Checa, Alberto; Checa, A; Checa; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación	PLoS One
20141548	Assessment of SCAR markers to design real-time PCR primers for rhizosphere quantification of Azospirillum brasilense phytostimulatory inoculants of maize.	To assess the applicability of sequence characterized amplified region (SCAR) markers obtained from BOX, ERIC and RAPD fragments to design primers for real-time PCR quantification of the phytostimulatory maize inoculants Azospirillum brasilense UAP-154 and CFN-535 in the rhizosphere.	2010 Aug	Couillerot, O; Couillerot, O; Couillerot; Poirier, M-A; Poirier, MA; Poirier; Prigent-Combaret, C; Prigent-Combaret, C; Prigent-Combaret; Mavingui, P; Mavingui, P; Mavingui; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Moënne-Loccoz, Y; Moënne-Loccoz, Y; Moënne-Loccoz	J Appl Microbiol
21082910	Genetic characterization of indigenous peoples from Oaxaca, Mexico, and its relation to linguistic and geographic isolation.	We used 15 short tandem repeat (STR) loci (D8S1179, D21S11, D7S820, CSF1PO, D3S1358, TH01, D13S317, D16S539, D2S1338, D19S433, VWA, TPOX, D18S51, D5S818, and FGA) to genetically characterize 361 individuals from 11 indigenous populations (Amuzgo, Chinanteco, Chontal, Huave, Mazateco, Mixe, Mixteco, Triqui, Zapoteco del Istmo, Zapoteco del Valle, and Zoque) from Oaxaca, Mexico. We also used previously published data from other Mexican peoples (Maya, Chol, Tepehua, Otomí, and Mestizos from northern and central Mexico) to delineate genetic relations, for a total of 541 individuals. Average heterozygosity (H) was lower in most populations from Oaxaca (range 0.687 in Zoque to 0.756 in Chontal) than values observed in Mestizo populations from Mexico (0.758 and 0.793 in central and northern Mestizo, respectively) but higher than values observed in other Amerindian populations from South America; the same relation was true for the number of alleles (n(a) ). We tested (using the software Structure) whether major geographic or linguistic barriers to gene flow existed among the populations of Oaxaca and found that the populations appeared to constitute one or two genetic groups, suggesting that neither geographic location nor linguistics had an effect on the genetic structure of these culturally and linguistically highly diverse indigenous peoples. Moreover, we found a low but statistically significant between-population differentiation. In addition, the genetic structure of Oaxacan populations did not fit an isolation-by-distance model. Finally, using AMOVA and a Bayesian clustering approach, we did not detect significant geographic or linguistic barriers to gene flow within Oaxaca. These results suggest that the indigenous communities of Oaxaca, although culturally isolated, can be genetically defined as a large, nearly panmictic population in which migration could be a more important population mechanism than genetic drift. Finally, compared with outgroups in Mexico (both indigenous peoples and Mestizos), three groups were apparent. Among them, only the Otomí population from Hidalgo has a different culture and language.	2010 Aug	Quinto-Cortés, Consuelo D; Quinto-Cortés, CD; Quinto-Cortés; Arriola, Luis A; Arriola, LA; Arriola; García-Hughes, Gianella; García-Hughes, G; García-Hughes; García-López, Rodrigo; García-López, R; García-López; Molina, Diana P; Molina, DP; Molina; Flores, Margarita; Flores, M; Flores; Palacios, Rafael; Palacios, R; Palacios; Piñero, Daniel; Piñero, D; Piñero	Hum Biol
20553393	MicroRNA expression profile in common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) under nutrient deficiency stresses and manganese toxicity.	*MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play a pivotal role in post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression in plants. Information on miRNAs in legumes is as yet scarce. This work investigates miRNAs in an agronomically important legume, common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris). *A hybridization approach employing miRNA macroarrays - printed with oligonucleotides complementary to 68 known miRNAs - was used to detect miRNAs in the leaves, roots and nodules of control and nutrient-stressed (phosphorus, nitrogen, or iron deficiency; acidic pH; and manganese toxicity) common bean plants. *Thirty-three miRNAs were expressed in control plants and another five were only expressed under stress conditions. The miRNA expression ratios (stress:control) were evaluated using principal component and hierarchical cluster analyses. A group of miRNAs responded to nearly all stresses in the three organs analyzed. Other miRNAs showed organ-specific responses. Most of the nodule-responsive miRNAs showed up-regulation. miRNA blot expression analysis confirmed the macroarray results. Novel miRNA target genes were proposed for common bean and the expression of selected targets was evaluated by quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. *In addition to the detection of previously reported stress-responsive miRNAs, we discovered novel common bean stress-responsive miRNAs, for manganese toxicity. Our data provide a foundation for evaluating the individual roles of miRNAs in common bean.	2010 Aug	Valdés-López, Oswaldo; Valdés-López, O; Valdés-López; Yang, S Samuel; Yang, SS; Yang; Aparicio-Fabre, Rosaura; Aparicio-Fabre, R; Aparicio-Fabre; Graham, Peter H; Graham, PH; Graham; Reyes, José Luis; Reyes, JL; Reyes; Vance, Carroll P; Vance, CP; Vance; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	New Phytol
22127169	Molecular phylogeny of the genus Dactylopius (Hemiptera: Dactylopiidae) and identification of the symbiotic bacteria.	Phylogenetic analyses, from polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-amplified 12S rRNA and 18S rRNA gene sequences from cochineal insects of the genus Dactylopius present in Mexico, showed that D. ceylonicus, D. confusus, and D. opuntiae are closely related. D.  coccus constitutes a separate clade, and D. tomentosus is the most distantly related. Bacterial 16S rRNA sequences from all the Dactylopius species sampled showed a common β-proteobacteria, related to Azoarcus, also found in eggs and in bacteriocytes in D. coccus.  We propose the name "Candidatus Dactylopiibacterium carminicum" for this endosymbiont. Other bacterial sequences recovered from the samples were close to those from soil or plant associated bacteria, like Massilia, Herbaspirillum, Acinetobacter, Mesorhizobium,  and Sphingomonas, suggesting a possible horizontal transmission from Cactaceae plant sap to Dactylopius spp. during feeding. This is the first molecular analysis of Dactylopius species and of their associated bacteria.	2010 Aug	Ramírez-Puebla, S T; Ramírez-Puebla, ST; Ramírez-Puebla; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Chávez-Moreno, C K; Chávez-Moreno, CK; Chávez-Moreno; de Lyra, M C Catanho Pereira; de Lyra, MC; de Lyra; Tecante, A; Tecante, A; Tecante; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Environ Entomol
20435728	Analysis of the mechanism of action of the antisense RNA that controls the replication of the repABC plasmid p42d.	Replication and segregation of the Rhizobium etli symbiotic plasmid (pRetCFN42d) depend on the presence of a repABC operon, which carries all the plasmid-encoded elements required for these functions. All repABC operons share three protein-encoding genes (repA, repB, and repC), an antisense RNA (ctRNA) coding gene, and at least one centromere-like region (parS). The products of repA and repB, in conjunction with the parS region, make up the segregation system, and they negatively regulate operon transcription. The last gene of the operon, repC, encodes the initiator protein. The ctRNA is a negative posttranscriptional regulator of repC. In this work, we analyzed the secondary structures of the ctRNA and its target and mapped the motifs involved in the complex formed between them. Essential residues for the effective interaction localize at the unpaired 5' end of the antisense molecule and the loop of the target mRNA. In light of our results, we propose a model explaining the mechanism of action of this ctRNA in the regulation of plasmid replication in R. etli.	2010 Jul	Cervantes-Rivera, Ramón; Cervantes-Rivera, R; Cervantes-Rivera; Romero-López, Cristina; Romero-López, C; Romero-López; Berzal-Herranz, Alfredo; Berzal-Herranz, A; Berzal-Herranz; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	J Bacteriol
20472732	Burkholderia phymatum strains capable of nodulating Phaseolus vulgaris are present in Moroccan soils.	Phylogenetic analysis of 16S rRNA, nodC, and nifH genes of four bacterial strains isolated from root nodules of Phaseolus vulgaris grown in Morocco soils were identified as Burkholderia phymatum. All four strains formed N(2)-fixing nodules on P. vulgaris and Mimosa, Acacia, and Prosopis species and reduced acetylene to ethylene when cultured ex planta.	2010 Jul	Talbi, C; Talbi, C; Talbi; Delgado, M J; Delgado, MJ; Delgado; Girard, L; Girard, L; Girard; Ramírez-Trujillo, A; Ramírez-Trujillo, A; Ramírez-Trujillo; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Bedmar, E J; Bedmar, EJ; Bedmar	Appl Environ Microbiol
20453139	Characterization of the NifA-RpoN regulon in Rhizobium etli in free life and in symbiosis with Phaseolus vulgaris.	The NifA-RpoN complex is a master regulator of the nitrogen fixation genes in alphaproteobacteria. Based on the complete Rhizobium etli genome sequence, we constructed an R. etli CFN42 oligonucleotide (70-mer) microarray and utilized this tool, reverse transcription (RT)-PCR analysis (transcriptomics), proteomics, and bioinformatics to decipher the NifA-RpoN regulon under microaerobic conditions (free life) and in symbiosis with bean plants. The R. etli NifA-RpoN regulon was determined to contain 78 genes, including the genes involved in nitrogen fixation, and the analyses revealed 42 new NifA-RpoN-dependent genes. More importantly, this study demonstrated that the NifA-RpoN regulon is composed of genes and proteins that have very diverse functions, that play fundamental and previously less appreciated roles in regulating the normal physiology of the cell, and that have important functions in providing adequate conditions for efficient nitrogen fixation in symbiosis. The R. etli NifA-RpoN regulon defined here has some components in common with other NifA-RpoN regulons described previously, but the vast majority of the components have been found only in the R. etli regulon, suggesting that they have a specific role in this bacterium and particular requirements during nitrogen fixation compared with other symbiotic bacterial models.	2010 Jul	Salazar, Emmanuel; Salazar, E; Salazar; Díaz-Mejía, J Javier; Díaz-Mejía, JJ; Díaz-Mejía; Moreno-Hagelsieb, Gabriel; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb; Martínez-Batallar, Gabriel; Martínez-Batallar, G; Martínez-Batallar; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación	Appl Environ Microbiol
20435760	Commonalities and differences in regulation of N-acyl homoserine lactone quorum sensing in the beneficial plant-associated burkholderia species cluster.	The genus Burkholderia includes over 60 species isolated from a wide range of environmental niches and can be tentatively divided into two major species clusters. The first cluster includes pathogens such as Burkholderia glumae, B. pseudomallei, and B. mallei and 17 well-studied species of the Burkholderia cepacia complex. The other recently established cluster comprises at least 29 nonpathogenic species, which in most cases have been found to be associated with plants. It was previously established that Burkholderia kururiensis, a member of the latter cluster, possesses an N-acyl homoserine lactone (AHL) quorum-sensing (QS) system designated "BraI/R," which is found in all species of the plant-associated cluster. In the present study, two other BraI/R-like systems were characterized in B. xenovorans and B. unamae and were designated the BraI/R(XEN) and BraI/R(UNA) systems, respectively. Several phenotypes were analyzed, and it was determined that exopolysaccharide was positively regulated by the BraIR-like system in the species B. kururiensis, B. unamae, and B. xenovorans, highlighting commonality in targets. However, the three BraIR-like systems also revealed differences in targets since biofilm formation and plant colonization were differentially regulated. In addition, a second AHL QS system designated XenI2/R2 and an unpaired LuxR solo protein designated BxeR solo were also identified and characterized in B. xenovorans LB400(T). The two AHL QS systems of B. xenovorans are not transcriptionally regulating each other, whereas BxeR solo negatively regulated xenI2. The XenI2/R2 and BxeR solo proteins are not widespread in the Burkholderia species cluster. In conclusion, the present study represents an extensive analysis of AHL QS in the Burkholderia plant-associated cluster demonstrating both commonalities and differences, probably reflecting environmental adaptations of the various species.	2010 Jul	Suárez-Moreno, Zulma Rocío; Suárez-Moreno, ZR; Suárez-Moreno; Devescovi, Giulia; Devescovi, G; Devescovi; Myers, Mike; Myers, M; Myers; Hallack, Letícia; Hallack, L; Hallack; Mendonça-Previato, Lucia; Mendonça-Previato, L; Mendonça-Previato; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Venturi, Vittorio; Venturi, V; Venturi	Appl Environ Microbiol
20459672	Transcript profiling of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) using the GeneChip Soybean Genome Array: optimizing analysis by masking biased probes.	Common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) and soybean (Glycine max) both belong to the Phaseoleae tribe and share significant coding sequence homology. This suggests that the GeneChip(R) Soybean Genome Array (soybean GeneChip) may be used for gene expression studies using common bean.	2010 May	Yang, S Samuel; Yang, SS; Yang; Valdés-López, Oswaldo; Valdés-López, O; Valdés-López; Xu, Wayne W; Xu, WW; Xu; Bucciarelli, Bruna; Bucciarelli, B; Bucciarelli; Gronwald, John W; Gronwald, JW; Gronwald; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Vance, Carroll P; Vance, CP; Vance	BMC Plant Biol
20153447	Altered lipid A structures and polymyxin hypersensitivity of Rhizobium etli mutants lacking the LpxE and LpxF phosphatases.	The lipid A of Rhizobium etli, a nitrogen-fixing plant endosymbiont, displays significant structural differences when compared to that of Escherichia coli. An especially striking feature of R. etli lipid A is that it lacks both the 1- and 4'-phosphate groups. The 4'-phosphate moiety of the distal glucosamine unit is replaced with a galacturonic acid residue. The dephosphorylated proximal unit is present as a mixture of the glucosamine hemiacetal and an oxidized 2-aminogluconate derivative. Distinct lipid A phosphatases directed to the 1 or the 4'-positions have been identified previously in extracts of R. etli and Rhizobium leguminosarum. The corresponding structural genes, lpxE and lpxF, respectively, have also been identified. Here, we describe the isolation and characterization of R. etli deletion mutants in each of these phosphatase genes and the construction of a double phosphatase mutant. Mass spectrometry confirmed that the mutant strains completely lacked the wild-type lipid A species and accumulated the expected phosphate-containing derivatives. Moreover, radiochemical analysis revealed that phosphatase activity was absent in membranes prepared from the mutants. Our results indicate that LpxE and LpxF are solely responsible for selectively dephosphorylating the lipid A molecules of R. etli. All the mutant strains showed an increased sensitivity to polymyxin relative to the wild-type. However, despite the presence of altered lipid A species containing one or both phosphate groups, all the phosphatase mutants formed nitrogen-fixing nodules on Phaseolus vulgaris. Therefore, the dephosphorylation of lipid A molecules in R. etli is not required for nodulation but may instead play a role in protecting the bacteria from cationic antimicrobial peptides or other immune responses of plants.	2010 May	Ingram, Brian O; Ingram, BO; Ingram; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Raetz, Christian R H; Raetz, CR; Raetz	Biochim Biophys Acta
20367476	Production of nitric oxide and nitrosylleghemoglobin complexes in soybean nodules in response to flooding.	Nitric oxide (NO) has gained interest as a major signaling molecule during plant development and in response to environmental cues. Formation of NO during symbiotic interactions has been reported, but the role and sources of NO in nodules remain unclear. In this work, the involvement of denitrification, performed by the symbiont Bradyrhizobium japonicum, in NO formation in soybean nodules in response to flooding conditions has been investigated by inoculating plants with napA-, nirK-, or norC-deficient mutants. Levels of nitrosylleghemoglobin (LbNO) in flooded nirK and norC nodules were significantly higher than those observed in wild-type nodules. In addition, nirK and norC nodules accumulated more nitrite and NO, respectively, than wild-type nodules. By contrast, levels of LbNO, nitrite, and NO in flooded napA nodules were lower than in wild-type nodules. These results suggest that LbNO formation in soybean nodules in response to flooding conditions is caused by nitrite and NO generated from periplasmic nitrate reductase (Nap) and also containing nitrite reductase (NirK) denitrification enzymes. Flooding caused a decrease of nifH expression and nitrogenase activity in wild-type and norC nodules but not in napA or nirK nodules. Incubation of wild-type and norC nodules with a NO scavenger counteracted the effect of flooding. Under free-living conditions, beta-galactosidase activity from a nifD'-'lacZ fusion decreased in a norC mutant, which also accumulated NO in the medium. These results suggest that NO formed by Cu-containing nitrite reductase in soybean nodules in response to flooding has a negative effect on expression of nitrogenase. We propose that Lb has a major role in detoxifying NO and nitrite produced by bacteroidal denitrification in response to flooding conditions.	2010 May	Sánchez, Cristina; Sánchez, C; Sánchez; Gates, Andrew J; Gates, AJ; Gates; Meakin, Georgina E; Meakin, GE; Meakin; Uchiumi, Toshiki; Uchiumi, T; Uchiumi; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Richardson, David J; Richardson, DJ; Richardson; Bedmar, Eulogio J; Bedmar, EJ; Bedmar; Delgado, María J; Delgado, MJ; Delgado	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
20096123	Identical repeated backbone of the human genome.	Identical sequences with a minimal length of about 300 base pairs (bp) have been involved in the generation of various meiotic/mitotic genomic rearrangements through non-allelic homologous recombination (NAHR) events. Genomic disorders and structural variation, together with gene remodelling processes have been associated with many of these rearrangements. Based on these observations, we identified and integrated all the 100% identical repeats of at least 300 bp in the NCBI version 36.2 human genome reference assembly into non-overlapping regions, thus defining the Identical Repeated Backbone (IRB) of the reference human genome.	2010 Jan	Zepeda-Mendoza, Cinthya J; Zepeda-Mendoza, CJ; Zepeda-Mendoza; Lemus, Tzitziki; Lemus, T; Lemus; Yáñez, Omar; Yáñez, O; Yáñez; García, Delfino; García, D; García; Valle-García, David; Valle-García, D; Valle-García; Meza-Sosa, Karla F; Meza-Sosa, KF; Meza-Sosa; Gutiérrez-Arcelus, María; Gutiérrez-Arcelus, M; Gutiérrez-Arcelus; Márquez-Ortiz, Yamile; Márquez-Ortiz, Y; Márquez-Ortiz; Domínguez-Vidaña, Rocío; Domínguez-Vidaña, R; Domínguez-Vidaña; Gonzaga-Jauregui, Claudia; Gonzaga-Jauregui, C; Gonzaga-Jauregui; Flores, Margarita; Flores, M; Flores; Palacios, Rafael; Palacios, R; Palacios	BMC Genomics
20048063	Conserved symbiotic plasmid DNA sequences in the multireplicon pangenomic structure of Rhizobium etli.	Strains of the same bacterial species often show considerable genomic variation. To examine the extent of such variation in Rhizobium etli, the complete genome sequence of R. etli CIAT652 and the partial genomic sequences of six additional R. etli strains having different geographical origins were determined. The sequences were compared with each other and with the previously reported genome sequence of R. etli CFN42. DNA sequences common to all strains constituted the greater part of these genomes and were localized in both the chromosome and large plasmids. About 700 to 1,000 kb of DNA that did not match sequences of the complete genomes of strains CIAT652 and CFN42 was unique to each R. etli strain. These sequences were distributed throughout the chromosome as individual genes or chromosomal islands and in plasmids, and they encoded accessory functions, such as transport of sugars and amino acids, or secondary metabolism; they also included mobile elements and hypothetical genes. Sequences corresponding to symbiotic plasmids showed high levels of nucleotide identity (about 98 to 99%), whereas chromosomal sequences and the sequences with matches to other plasmids showed lower levels of identity (on average, about 90 to 95%). We concluded that R. etli has a pangenomic structure with a core genome composed of both chromosomal and plasmid sequences, including a highly conserved symbiotic plasmid, despite the overall genomic divergence.	2010 Mar	González, Víctor; González, V; González; Acosta, José L; Acosta, JL; Acosta; Santamaría, Rosa I; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Fernández, José L; Fernández, JL; Fernández; Hernández González, Ismael L; Hernández González, IL; Hernández González; Díaz, Rafael; Díaz, R; Díaz; Flores, Margarita; Flores, M; Flores; Palacios, Rafael; Palacios, R; Palacios; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila	Appl Environ Microbiol
19809970	Transformed cell suspension culture of Galphimia glauca producing sedative nor-friedelanes.	The Mexican species GALPHIMIA GLAUCA (Cav.) Kuntze (Malphigiaceae) synthesises a family of sedative and anxiolytic nor-secofriedelanes, designated as galphimines. These active principles accumulate at low concentration in the aerial parts of plants from wild populations. Transformed calluses and cell suspension cultures of this species were established in order to induce a greater production of nor-friedelanes. The cell suspension line GgBa was selected and grown over a period of two years of continuous subculturing in MS nutrient medium in the absence of growth regulators. PCR and Southern blot analyses were employed in order to confirm that the ROL A gene had been integrated into the plant genome. Batch cultures of the GgBa cell line were grown over a 32-day period and first-order growth kinetics was observed, reaching a specific growth rate (micro) of 0.13 d (-1). The production of glaucacetalin A ( 10), a triterpenoid related to the known galphimines, was quantified in the nutrient medium by HPLC. The transformed cell suspension culture GgBa also synthesised a novel nor-friedelane, given the name glaucacetalin D ( 13). High-resolution spectroscopic and spectrometric techniques were employed to elucidate the structure of 13. This triterpene has never been observed in wild plant tissues or in other IN VITRO cultures. Maslinic acid ( 14) was identified in cell biomasses. The triterpene production of the cell line GgBa was as follows: glaucacetalin A, 2.7 mg/L; glaucacetalin D, 2.9 mg/L and maslinic acid, 2.4 mg/g dry weight. The sedative activity of compounds 10 and 13 was demonstrated in ICR mice by using the sodium pentobarbital-induced hypnosis model. No cytotoxicity of 10 and 13 was exhibited against KB, MCF-7 and HF6 human cancer cell lines.	2010 Mar	Ortíz, Anabel; Ortíz, A; Ortíz; Cardoso-Taketa, Alexandre; Cardoso-Taketa, A; Cardoso-Taketa; Monroy, Mario Rodríguez; Monroy, MR; Monroy; Arellano, Jesús; Arellano, J; Arellano; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Villarreal, María Luisa; Villarreal, ML; Villarreal	Planta Med
19797355	SMc01553 is the sixth acyl carrier protein in Sinorhizobium meliloti 1021.	Acyl carrier proteins (ACPs) are required for the transfer of acyl intermediates during fatty acid and polyketide syntheses. In Sinorhizobium meliloti 1021 there are five known ACPs: AcpP, NodF, AcpXL, the ACP domain in RkpA and SMb20651. The genome sequence of S. meliloti 1021 also reveals the ORF SMc01553, annotated as a putative ACP. smc01553 is part of a 6.6 kb DNA region that is duplicated in the chromosome and in the pSymb plasmid, the result of a recent duplication event. SMc01553 overexpressed in Escherichia coli was labelled in vivo with [(3)H]beta-alanine, a biosynthetic building block of the 4'-phosphopantetheine prosthetic group of ACPs. The purified SMc01553 was modified with 4'-phosphopantetheine in the presence of S. meliloti holo-ACP synthase, and this modification resulted in a major conformational change of the protein structure, since the holo-form runs faster in native PAGE than the apo-form. SMc01553 could not be loaded with a malonyl group by malonyl-CoA-ACP transacylase from S. meliloti. Using RT-PCR we could show the presence of mRNA for SMc01553 and of the duplicated ORF SMb22007 in cultures of S. meliloti. However, a mutant in which the two duplicated regions were deleted did not show any different phenotype with respect to the wild-type in the free-living or symbiotic lifestyle.	2010 Jan	Dávila-Martínez, Yadira; Dávila-Martínez, Y; Dávila-Martínez; Ramos-Vega, Ana Laura; Ramos-Vega, AL; Ramos-Vega; Contreras-Martínez, Sandra; Contreras-Martínez, S; Contreras-Martínez; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara	Microbiology (Reading)
20018679	Sinorhizobium meliloti phospholipase C required for lipid remodeling during phosphorus limitation.	Rhizobia are Gram-negative soil bacteria able to establish nitrogen-fixing root nodules with their respective legume host plants. Besides phosphatidylglycerol, cardiolipin, and phosphatidylethanolamine, rhizobial membranes contain phosphatidylcholine (PC) as a major membrane lipid. Under phosphate-limiting conditions of growth, some bacteria replace their membrane phospholipids with lipids lacking phosphorus. In Sinorhizobium meliloti, these phosphorus-free lipids are sulfoquinovosyl diacylglycerol, ornithine-containing lipid, and diacylglyceryl trimethylhomoserine (DGTS). Pulse-chase experiments suggest that the zwitterionic phospholipids phosphatidylethanolamine and PC act as biosynthetic precursors of DGTS under phosphorus-limiting conditions. A S. meliloti mutant, deficient in the predicted phosphatase SMc00171 was unable to degrade PC or to form DGTS in a similar way as the wild type. Cell-free extracts of Escherichia coli, in which SMc00171 had been expressed, convert PC to phosphocholine and diacylglycerol, showing that SMc00171 functions as a phospholipase C. Diacylglycerol , in turn, is the lipid anchor from which biosynthesis is initiated during the formation of the phosphorus-free membrane lipid DGTS. Inorganic phosphate can be liberated from phosphocholine. These data suggest that, in S. meliloti under phosphate-limiting conditions, membrane phospholipids provide a pool for metabolizable inorganic phosphate, which can be used for the synthesis of other essential phosphorus-containing biomolecules. This is an example of an intracellular phospholipase C in a bacterial system; however, the ability to degrade endogenous preexisting membrane phospholipids as a source of phosphorus may be a general property of Gram-negative soil bacteria.	2010 Jan	Zavaleta-Pastor, Maritza; Zavaleta-Pastor, M; Zavaleta-Pastor; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Gao, Jun-Lian; Gao, JL; Gao; Guan, Ziqiang; Guan, Z; Guan; Zaheer, Rahat; Zaheer, R; Zaheer; Finan, Turlough M; Finan, TM; Finan; Raetz, Christian R H; Raetz, CR; Raetz; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
20030724	Phosphatidylcholine levels of peanut-nodulating Bradyrhizobium sp. SEMIA 6144 affect cell size and motility.	Phosphatidylcholine, the major phospholipid in eukaryotes, is found in rhizobia and in many other bacteria interacting with eukaryotic hosts. Phosphatidylcholine has been shown to be required for a successful interaction of Bradyrhizobium japonicum USDA 110 with soybean roots. Our aim was to study the role of bacterial phosphatidylcholine in the Bradyrhizobium-peanut (Arachis hypogaea) symbiosis. Phospholipid N-methyltransferase (Pmt) and minor phosphatidylcholine synthase (Pcs) activities were detected in crude extracts of the peanut-nodulating strain Bradyrhizobium sp. SEMIA 6144. Our results suggest that phosphatidylcholine formation in Bradyrhizobium sp. SEMIA 6144 is mainly due to the phospholipid methylation pathway. Southern blot analysis using pmt- and pcs-probes of B. japonicum USDA 110 revealed a pcs and multiple pmt homologues in Bradyrhizobium sp. SEMIA 6144. A pmtA knockout mutant was constructed in Bradyrhizobium sp. SEMIA 6144 that showed a 50% decrease in the phosphatidylcholine content in comparison with the wild-type strain. The mutant was severely affected in motility and cell size, but formed wild-type-like nodules on its host plant. However, in coinoculation experiments, the pmtA-deficient mutant was less competitive than the wild type, suggesting that wild-type levels of phosphatidylcholine are required for full competitivity of Bradyrhizobium in symbiosis with peanut plants.	2010 Feb	Medeot, Daniela B; Medeot, DB; Medeot; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Dardanelli, Marta S; Dardanelli, MS; Dardanelli; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; de Lema, Mirta García; de Lema, MG; de Lema; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara	FEMS Microbiol Lett
19767616	3D-footprint: a database for the structural analysis of protein-DNA complexes.	3D-footprint is a living database, updated and curated on a weekly basis, which provides estimates of binding specificity for all protein-DNA complexes available at the Protein Data Bank. The web interface allows the user to: (i) browse DNA-binding proteins by keyword; (ii) find proteins that recognize a similar DNA motif and (iii) BLAST similar DNA-binding proteins, highlighting interface residues in the resulting alignments. Each complex in the database is dissected to draw interface graphs and footprint logos, and two complementary algorithms are employed to characterize binding specificity. Moreover, oligonucleotide sequences extracted from literature abstracts are reported in order to show the range of variant sites bound by each protein and other related proteins. Benchmark experiments, including comparisons with expert-curated databases RegulonDB and TRANSFAC, support the quality of structure-based estimates of specificity. The relevant content of the database is available for download as flat files and it is also possible to use the 3D-footprint pipeline to analyze protein coordinates input by the user. 3D-footprint is available at http://floresta.eead.csic.es/3dfootprint with demo buttons and a comprehensive tutorial that illustrates the main uses of this resource.	2010 Jan	Contreras-Moreira, Bruno; Contreras-Moreira, B; Contreras-Moreira	Nucleic Acids Res
19703488	Amino acid-containing membrane lipids in bacteria.	In the bacterial model organism Escherichia coli only the three major membrane lipids phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylglycerol, and cardiolipin occur, all of which belong to the glycerophospholipids. The amino acid-containing phosphatidylserine is a major lipid in eukaryotic membranes but in most bacteria it occurs only as a minor biosynthetic intermediate. In some bacteria, the anionic glycerophospholipids phosphatidylglycerol and cardiolipin can be decorated with aminoacyl residues. For example, phosphatidylglycerol can be decorated with lysine, alanine, or arginine whereas in the case of cardiolipin, lysine or d-alanine modifications are known. In few bacteria, diacylglycerol-derived lipids can be substituted with lysine or homoserine. Acyl-oxyacyl lipids in which the lipidic part is amide-linked to the alpha-amino group of an amino acid are widely distributed among bacteria and ornithine-containing lipids are the most common version of this lipid type. Only few bacterial groups form glycine-containing lipids, serineglycine-containing lipids, sphingolipids, or sulfonolipids. Although many of these amino acid-containing bacterial membrane lipids are produced in response to certain stress conditions, little is known about the specific molecular functions of these lipids.	2010 Jan	Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; González-Silva, Napoleón; González-Silva, N; González-Silva; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	Prog Lipid Res
19945811	Rapid identification of nitrogen-fixing and legume-nodulating Burkholderia species based on PCR 16S rRNA species-specific oligonucleotides.	Several novel N(2)-fixing Burkholderia species associated with plants, including legume-nodulating species, have recently been discovered. Presently, considerable interest exists in studying the diazotrophic Burkholderia species, both for their ecology and their great potential for agro-biotechnological applications. However, the available methods used in the identification of these Burkholderia species are time-consuming and expensive. In this study, PCR species-specific primers based on the 16S rRNA gene were designed, which allowed rapid, easy, and correct identification of most known N(2)-fixing Burkholderia. With this approach, type and reference strains of Burkholderia kururiensis, B. unamae, B. xenovorans, B. tropica, and B. silvatlantica, as well as the legume-nodulating B. phymatum, B. tuberum, B. mimosarum, and B. nodosa, were unambiguously identified. In addition, the PCR species-specific primers allowed the diversity of the diazotrophic Burkholderia associated with field-grown tomato and sorghum plants to be determined. B. tropica and B. xenovorans were the predominant species found in association with tomato, but the occurrence of B. tropica with sorghum plants was practically exclusive. The efficiency of the species-specific primers was validated with the detection of B. tropica and B. xenovorans from DNA directly recovered from tomato rhizosphere soil samples. Additionally, using PCR species-specific primers, all of the legume-nodulating Burkholderia were correctly identified, even from single nodules collected from inoculated common bean plants. These primers could contribute to rapid identification of the diazotrophic and nodulating Burkholderia species associated with important crop plants and legumes, as well as revealing their environmental distribution.	2010 Jan	Wong-Villarreal, Arnoldo; Wong-Villarreal, A; Wong-Villarreal; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	Syst Appl Microbiol
19995411	Structural and functional map of a bacterial nucleoid.	Genome-wide mapping of transcription factor-DNA interactions in bacterial chromosomes in vivo has begun to reveal global zones occupied by these factors that serve two purposes: compacting the bacterial DNA and influencing global programs of gene transcription.	2009	Martínez-Antonio, Agustino; Martínez-Antonio, A; Martínez-Antonio; Medina-Rivera, Alejandra; Medina-Rivera, A; Medina-Rivera; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Genome Biol
20464217	[Genetics and genomics for the study of bacterial resistance].	Bacterial resistance is a public health problem causing high rates of morbidity and mortality in hospital settings. To the extent that different antibiotics are used, bacteria resistant to multiple drugs are selected. The development of new molecular genomic and proteomic tools such as real-time PCR, DNA pyrosequencing, mass spectrometry, DNA microarrays, and bioinformatics allow for more in-depth knowledge about the physiology and structure of bacteria and mechanisms involved in antibiotic resistance. These studies identify new targets for drugs and design specific antibiotics to provide more accurate treatments to combat infections caused by bacteria. Using these techniques, it will also be possible to rapidly identify genes that confer resistance to antibiotics, and to identify complex genetic structures, such as integrons that are involved in the spread of genes that confer multidrug-resistance.	2009	Garza-Ramos, Ulises; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos; Silva-Sánchez, Jesús; Silva-Sánchez, J; Silva-Sánchez; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Salud Publica Mex
19919719	Horizontal gene transfer and diverse functional constrains within a common replication-partitioning system in Alphaproteobacteria: the repABC operon.	The repABC plasmid family, which is extensively present within Alphaproteobacteria, and some secondary chromosomes of the Rhizobiales have the particular feature that all the elements involved in replication and partitioning reside within one transcriptional unit, the repABC operon. Given the functional interactions among the elements of the repABC operon, and the fact that they all reside in the same operon, a common evolutionary history would be expected if the entire operon had been horizontally transferred. Here, we tested whether there is a common evolutionary history within the repABC operon. We further examined different incompatibility groups in terms of their differentiation and degree of adaptation to their host.	2009 Nov	Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Vázquez-Castellanos, Jorge F; Vázquez-Castellanos, JF; Vázquez-Castellanos; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	BMC Genomics
19684068	Major roles of isocitrate lyase and malate synthase in bacterial and fungal pathogenesis.	The glyoxylate cycle is an anaplerotic pathway of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle that allows growth on C(2) compounds by bypassing the CO(2)-generating steps of the TCA cycle. The unique enzymes of this route are isocitrate lyase (ICL) and malate synthase (MS). ICL cleaves isocitrate to glyoxylate and succinate, and MS converts glyoxylate and acetyl-CoA to malate. The end products of the bypass can be used for gluconeogenesis and other biosynthetic processes. The glyoxylate cycle occurs in Eukarya, Bacteria and Archaea. Recent studies of ICL- and MS-deficient strains as well as proteomic and transcriptional analyses show that these enzymes are often important in human, animal and plant pathogenesis. These studies have extended our understanding of the metabolic pathways essential for the survival of pathogens inside the host and provide a more complete picture of the physiology of pathogenic micro-organisms. Hopefully, the recent knowledge generated about the role of the glyoxylate cycle in virulence can be used for the development of new vaccines, or specific inhibitors to combat bacterial and fungal diseases.	2009 Oct	Dunn, M F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Ramírez-Trujillo, J A; Ramírez-Trujillo, JA; Ramírez-Trujillo; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas	Microbiology (Reading)
19755543	Global changes in the transcript and metabolic profiles during symbiotic nitrogen fixation in phosphorus-stressed common bean plants.	Phosphorus (P) deficiency is widespread in regions where the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris), the most important legume for human consumption, is produced, and it is perhaps the factor that most limits nitrogen fixation. Global gene expression and metabolome approaches were used to investigate the responses of nodules from common bean plants inoculated with Rhizobium tropici CIAT899 grown under P-deficient and P-sufficient conditions. P-deficient inoculated plants showed drastic reduction in nodulation and nitrogenase activity as determined by acetylene reduction assay. Nodule transcript profiling was performed through hybridization of nylon filter arrays spotted with cDNAs, approximately 4,000 unigene set, from the nodule and P-deficient root library. A total of 459 genes, representing different biological processes according to updated annotation using the UniProt Knowledgebase database, showed significant differential expression in response to P: 59% of these were induced in P-deficient nodules. The expression platform for transcription factor genes based in quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction revealed that 37 transcription factor genes were differentially expressed in P-deficient nodules and only one gene was repressed. Data from nontargeted metabolic profiles indicated that amino acids and other nitrogen metabolites were decreased, while organic and polyhydroxy acids were accumulated, in P-deficient nodules. Bioinformatics analyses using MapMan and PathExpress software tools, customized to common bean, were utilized for the analysis of global changes in gene expression that affected overall metabolism. Glycolysis and glycerolipid metabolism, and starch and Suc metabolism, were identified among the pathways significantly induced or repressed in P-deficient nodules, respectively.	2009 Nov	Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Valdés-López, Oswaldo; Valdés-López, O; Valdés-López; Ramírez, Mario; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Goffard, Nicolas; Goffard, N; Goffard; Weiller, Georg; Weiller, G; Weiller; Aparicio-Fabre, Rosaura; Aparicio-Fabre, R; Aparicio-Fabre; Fuentes, Sara Isabel; Fuentes, SI; Fuentes; Erban, Alexander; Erban, A; Erban; Kopka, Joachim; Kopka, J; Kopka; Udvardi, Michael K; Udvardi, MK; Udvardi; Vance, Carroll P; Vance, CP; Vance	Plant Physiol
19838305	Genome-wide identification of transcription start sites, promoters and transcription factor binding sites in E. coli.	Despite almost 40 years of molecular genetics research in Escherichia coli a major fraction of its Transcription Start Sites (TSSs) are still unknown, limiting therefore our understanding of the regulatory circuits that control gene expression in this model organism. RegulonDB (http://regulondb.ccg.unam.mx/) is aimed at integrating the genetic regulatory network of E. coli K12 as an entirely bioinformatic project up till now. In this work, we extended its aims by generating experimental data at a genome scale on TSSs, promoters and regulatory regions. We implemented a modified 5' RACE protocol and an unbiased High Throughput Pyrosequencing Strategy (HTPS) that allowed us to map more than 1700 TSSs with high precision. From this collection, about 230 corresponded to previously reported TSSs, which helped us to benchmark both our methodologies and the accuracy of the previous mapping experiments. The other ca 1500 TSSs mapped belong to about 1000 different genes, many of them with no assigned function. We identified promoter sequences and type of sigma factors that control the expression of about 80% of these genes. As expected, the housekeeping sigma(70) was the most common type of promoter, followed by sigma(38). The majority of the putative TSSs were located between 20 to 40 nucleotides from the translational start site. Putative regulatory binding sites for transcription factors were detected upstream of many TSSs. For a few transcripts, riboswitches and small RNAs were found. Several genes also had additional TSSs within the coding region. Unexpectedly, the HTPS experiments revealed extensive antisense transcription, probably for regulatory functions. The new information in RegulonDB, now with more than 2400 experimentally determined TSSs, strengthens the accuracy of promoter prediction, operon structure, and regulatory networks and provides valuable new information that will facilitate the understanding from a global perspective the complex and intricate regulatory network that operates in E. coli.	2009 Oct	Mendoza-Vargas, Alfredo; Mendoza-Vargas, A; Mendoza-Vargas; Olvera, Leticia; Olvera, L; Olvera; Olvera, Maricela; Olvera, M; Olvera; Grande, Ricardo; Grande, R; Grande; Vega-Alvarado, Leticia; Vega-Alvarado, L; Vega-Alvarado; Taboada, Blanca; Taboada, B; Taboada; Jimenez-Jacinto, Verónica; Jimenez-Jacinto, V; Jimenez-Jacinto; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Juárez, Katy; Juárez, K; Juárez; Contreras-Moreira, Bruno; Contreras-Moreira, B; Contreras-Moreira; Huerta, Araceli M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Morett, Enrique; Morett, E; Morett	PLoS One
19700546	ACC (1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate) deaminase activity, a widespread trait in Burkholderia species, and its growth-promoting effect on tomato plants.	The genus Burkholderia includes pathogens of plants and animals and some human opportunistic pathogens, such as the Burkholderia cepacia complex (Bcc), but most species are nonpathogenic, plant associated, and rhizospheric or endophytic. Since rhizobacteria expressing ACC (1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate) deaminase may enhance plant growth by lowering plant ethylene levels, in this work we investigated the presence of ACC deaminase activity and the acdS gene in 45 strains, most of which are plant associated, representing 20 well-known Burkholderia species. The results demonstrated that ACC deaminase activity is a widespread feature in the genus Burkholderia, since 18 species exhibited ACC deaminase activities in the range from 2 to 15 mumol of alpha-ketobutyrate/h/mg protein, which suggests that these species may be able to modulate ethylene levels and enhance plant growth. In these 18 Burkholderia species the acdS gene sequences were highly conserved (76 to 99% identity). Phylogenetic analysis of acdS gene sequences in Burkholderia showed tight clustering of the Bcc species, which were clearly distinct from diazotrophic plant-associated Burkholderia species. In addition, an acdS knockout mutant of the N(2)-fixing bacterium Burkholderia unamae MTl-641(T) and a transcriptional acdSp-gusA fusion constructed in this strain showed that ACC deaminase could play an important role in promotion of the growth of tomato plants. The widespread ACC deaminase activity in Burkholderia species and the common association of these species with plants suggest that this genus could be a major contributor to plant growth under natural conditions.	2009 Oct	Onofre-Lemus, Janette; Onofre-Lemus, J; Onofre-Lemus; Hernández-Lucas, Ismael; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	Appl Environ Microbiol
19555380	Nodulation of Sesbania species by Rhizobium (Agrobacterium) strain IRBG74 and other rhizobia.	Concatenated sequence analysis with 16S rRNA, rpoB and fusA genes identified a bacterial strain (IRBG74) isolated from root nodules of the aquatic legume Sesbania cannabina as a close relative of the plant pathogen Rhizobium radiobacter (syn. Agrobacterium tumefaciens). However, DNA:DNA hybridization with R. radiobacter, R. rubi, R. vitis and R. huautlense gave only 44%, 5%, 8% and 8% similarity respectively, suggesting that IRBG74 is potentially a new species. Additionally, it contained no vir genes and lacked tumour-forming ability, but harboured a sym-plasmid containing nifH and nodA genes similar to those in other Sesbania symbionts. Indeed, IRBG74 effectively nodulated S. cannabina and seven other Sesbania spp. that nodulate with Ensifer (Sinorhizobium)/Rhizobium strains with similar nodA genes to IRBG74, but not species that nodulate with Azorhizobium or Mesorhizobium. Light and electron microscopy revealed that IRBG74 infected Sesbania spp. via lateral root junctions under flooded conditions, but via root hairs under non-flooded conditions. Thus, IRBG74 is the first confirmed legume-nodulating symbiont from the Rhizobium (Agrobacterium) clade. Cross-inoculation studies with various Sesbania symbionts showed that S. cannabina could form fully effective symbioses with strains in the genera Rhizobium and Ensifer, only ineffective ones with Azorhizobium strains, and either partially effective (Mesorhizobium huakii) or ineffective (Mesorhizobium plurifarium) symbioses with Mesorhizobium. These data are discussed in terms of the molecular phylogeny of Sesbania and its symbionts.	2009 Oct	Cummings, Stephen P; Cummings, SP; Cummings; Gyaneshwar, Prasad; Gyaneshwar, P; Gyaneshwar; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Farruggia, Frank T; Farruggia, FT; Farruggia; Andrews, Mitchell; Andrews, M; Andrews; Humphry, David; Humphry, D; Humphry; Elliott, Geoffrey N; Elliott, GN; Elliott; Nelson, Andrew; Nelson, A; Nelson; Orr, Caroline; Orr, C; Orr; Pettitt, Deborah; Pettitt, D; Pettitt; Shah, Gopit R; Shah, GR; Shah; Santos, Scott R; Santos, SR; Santos; Krishnan, Hari B; Krishnan, HB; Krishnan; Odee, David; Odee, D; Odee; Moreira, Fatima M S; Moreira, FM; Moreira; Sprent, Janet I; Sprent, JI; Sprent; Young, J Peter W; Young, JP; Young; James, Euan K; James, EK; James	Environ Microbiol
19789986	Physical mapping of the elephant X chromosome: conservation of gene order over 105 million years.	All therian mammals (eutherians and marsupials) have an XX female/XY male sex chromosome system or some variant of it. The X and Y evolved from a homologous pair of autosomes over the 166 million years since therian mammals diverged from monotremes. Comparing the sex chromosomes of eutherians and marsupials defined an ancient X conserved region that is shared between species of these mammalian clades. However, the eutherian X (and the Y) was augmented by a recent addition (XAR) that is autosomal in marsupials. XAR is part of the X in primates, rodents, and artiodactyls (which belong to the eutherian clade Boreoeutheria), but it is uncertain whether XAR is part of the X chromosome in more distantly related eutherian mammals. Here we report on the gene content and order on the X of the elephant (Loxodonta africana)-a representative of Afrotheria, a basal endemic clade of African mammals-and compare these findings to those of other documented eutherian species. A total of 17 genes were mapped to the elephant X chromosome. Our results support the hypothesis that the eutherian X and Y chromosomes were augmented by the addition of autosomal material prior to eutherian radiation. Not only does the elephant X bear the same suite of genes as other eutherian X chromosomes, but gene order appears to have been maintained across 105 million years of evolution, perhaps reflecting strong constraints posed by the eutherian X inactivation system.	2009	Delgado, Claudia Leticia Rodríguez; Delgado, CL; Delgado; Waters, Paul D; Waters, PD; Waters; Gilbert, Clément; Gilbert, C; Gilbert; Robinson, Terence J; Robinson, TJ; Robinson; Graves, Jennifer A Marshall; Graves, JA; Graves	Chromosome Res
19772633	From sequence to dynamics: the effects of transcription factor and polymerase concentration changes on activated and repressed promoters.	The fine tuning of two features of the bacterial regulatory machinery have been known to contribute to the diversity of gene expression within the same regulon: the sequence of Transcription Factor (TF) binding sites, and their location with respect to promoters. While variations of binding sequences modulate the strength of the interaction between the TF and its binding sites, the distance between binding sites and promoters alter the interaction between the TF and the RNA polymerase (RNAP).	2009 Sep	Pérez, Abel González; Pérez, AG; Pérez; Angarica, Vladimir Espinosa; Angarica, VE; Angarica; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Vasconcelos, Ana Tereza Ribeiro; Vasconcelos, AT; Vasconcelos	BMC Mol Biol
19519856	The blaSHV-5 gene is encoded in a compound transposon duplicated in tandem in Enterobacter cloacae.	The presence of bla(SHV-5) is described in a compound transposon, duplicated in tandem and flanked by IS26 copies on a 70-kb conjugative plasmid (pHNM1), in an Enterobacter cloacae strain associated with a nosocomial outbreak that occurred in Mexico.	2009 Sep	Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos; Davila, G; Davila, G; Davila; Gonzalez, V; Gonzalez, V; Gonzalez; Alpuche-Aranda, C; Alpuche-Aranda, C; Alpuche-Aranda; López-Collada, V R; López-Collada, VR; López-Collada; Alcantar-Curiel, D; Alcantar-Curiel, D; Alcantar-Curiel; Newton, O; Newton, O; Newton; Silva-Sanchez, J; Silva-Sanchez, J; Silva-Sanchez	Clin Microbiol Infect
19465390	primers4clades: a web server that uses phylogenetic trees to design lineage-specific PCR primers for metagenomic and diversity studies.	Primers4clades is an easy-to-use web server that implements a fully automatic PCR primer design pipeline for cross-species amplification of novel sequences from metagenomic DNA, or from uncharacterized organisms, belonging to user-specified phylogenetic clades or taxa. The server takes a set of non-aligned protein coding genes, with or without introns, aligns them and computes a neighbor-joining tree, which is displayed on screen for easy selection of species or sequence clusters to design lineage-specific PCR primers. Primers4clades implements an extended CODEHOP primer design strategy based on both DNA and protein multiple sequence alignments. It evaluates several thermodynamic properties of the oligonucleotide pairs, and computes the phylogenetic information content of the predicted amplicon sets from Shimodaira-Hasegawa-like branch support values of maximum likelihood phylogenies. A non-redundant set of primer formulations is returned, ranked according to their thermodynamic properties. An amplicon distribution map provides a convenient overview of the coverage of the target locus. Altogether these features greatly help the user in making an informed choice between alternative primer pair formulations. Primers4clades is available at two mirror sites: http://maya.ccg.unam.mx/primers4clades/and http://floresta.eead.csic.es/primers4clades/. Three demo data sets and a comprehensive documentation/tutorial page are provided for easy testing of the server's capabilities and interface.	2009 Jul	Contreras-Moreira, Bruno; Contreras-Moreira, B; Contreras-Moreira; Sachman-Ruiz, Bernardo; Sachman-Ruiz, B; Sachman-Ruiz; Figueroa-Palacios, Iraís; Figueroa-Palacios, I; Figueroa-Palacios; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa	Nucleic Acids Res
19485766	Coevolution in Rhizobium-legume symbiosis?	Legume nodules, specialized structures for nitrogen fixation, are probably the result of coevolution of plants and ancestral rhizobia. Among the evolutionary processes leading to legume radiation and divergence, coevolution with rhizobia might have occurred. Alternatively, bacteria could have been constantly selected by plants, with bacteria slightly influencing plant evolution (required to fulfill the criteria for a coevolutionary hypothesis). Evidence of bacterial effects on plant evolution is scarce but being searched for. Bacterial genetic plasticity may be indicative of the large capacity of Rhizobium to adapt to legumes. Events such as symbiotic replacement, easy recruitment of symbiotic bacteria by legume plants, and lateral transfer of symbiotic genes seem to erase the coevolutionary or selected relationships in rhizobial-legume symbiosis. In particular, the hypotheses proposed are (1) Rhizobium replaced Bradyrhizobium in a few hosts of the Phaseoleae tribe, Phaseolus vulgaris and P. coccineus; (2) Rhizobium etli as a species did not coevolve with bean; and (3) beta-Proteobacteria replaced alpha-Proteobacteria in South American mimosas. Novel results on symbiosis suggest a more complex evolutionary process for nodulation that may include multiple organisms, such as mycorrhiza, nematodes, and other bacteria in addition to rhizobia.	2009 Aug	Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	DNA Cell Biol
19502410	The extent of migration of the Holliday junction is a crucial factor for gene conversion in Rhizobium etli.	Gene conversion, defined as the nonreciprocal transfer of DNA, is one result of homologous recombination. Three steps in recombination could give rise to gene conversion: (i) DNA synthesis for repair of the degraded segment, (ii) Holliday junction migration, leading to heteroduplex formation, and (iii) repair of mismatches in the heteroduplex. There are at least three proteins (RuvAB, RecG, and RadA) that participate in the second step. Their roles have been studied for homologous recombination, but evidence of their relative role in gene conversion is lacking. In this work, we showed the effect on gene conversion of mutations in ruvB, recG, and radA in Rhizobium etli, either alone or in combination, using a cointegration strategy previously developed in our laboratory. The results indicate that the RuvAB system is highly efficient for gene conversion, since its absence provokes smaller gene conversion segments than those in the wild type as well as a shift in the preferred position of conversion tracts. The RecG system possesses a dual role for gene conversion. Inactivation of recG leads to longer gene conversion tracts than those in the wild type, indicating that its activity may hinder heteroduplex extension. However, under circumstances where it is the only migration activity present (as in the ruvB radA double mutant), conversion segments can still be seen, indicating that RecG can also promote gene conversion. RadA is the least efficient system in R. etli but is still needed for the production of detectable gene conversion tracts.	2009 Aug	Castellanos, Mildred; Castellanos, M; Castellanos; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero	J Bacteriol
19372274	Transcriptional regulation shapes the organization of genes on bacterial chromosomes.	Transcription factors (TFs) are the key elements responsible for controlling the expression of genes in bacterial genomes and when visualized on a genomic scale form a dense network of transcriptional interactions among themselves and with other protein coding genes. Although the structure of transcriptional regulatory networks (TRNs) is well understood, it is not clear what constrains govern them. Here, we explore this question using the TRNs of model prokaryotes and provide a link between the transcriptional hierarchy of regulons and their genome organization. We show that, to drive the kinetics and concentration gradients, TFs belonging to big and small regulons, depending on the number of genes they regulate, organize themselves differently on the genome with respect to their targets. We then propose a conceptual model that can explain how the hierarchical structure of TRNs might be ultimately governed by the dynamic biophysical requirements for targeting DNA-binding sites by TFs. Our results suggest that the main parameters defining the position of a TF in the network hierarchy are the number and chromosomal distances of the genes they regulate and their protein concentration gradients. These observations give insights into how the hierarchical structure of transcriptional networks can be encoded on the chromosome to drive the kinetics and concentration gradients of TFs depending on the number of genes they regulate and could be a common theme valid for other prokaryotes, proposing the role of transcriptional regulation in shaping the organization of genes on a chromosome.	2009 Jun	Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Martínez-Antonio, Agustino; Martínez-Antonio, A; Martínez-Antonio	Nucleic Acids Res
19214572	Changes in beta-giardin sequence of Giardia intestinalis sensitive and resistant to albendazole strains.	Giardia intestinalis can develop resistance to albendazole, although the molecular mechanism is not understood. The aim of this study was to investigate the differences and permanent mutation in the beta-giardin gene of G. intestinalis strains: sensitive, resistant, or recovered-resistance to albendazole. The beta-giardin gene was amplified by nested polymerase chain reaction. The IC(50) values varied from 0.29 to 0.38 microg/mL for strains sensitive to albendazole. For resistant strains, the IC(50) range was 1.31-2.12 microg/mL. Recovered-sensitivity albendazole strains' IC(50) values were 0.33-0.49 microg/mL, and for strains with recovered-resistance, the IC(50) was 1.42-2.74 microg/mL. beta-giardin amplicon (720 bp) was sequenced and analysis sequence revealed several amino acid mutations from resistant and recovered-sensitive strains of G. intestinalis. Most of the mutations were located in the ROD domain of beta-giardin with a change from the sequence "TIARERA" in sensitive strains instead "IDRPRE" in resistant strains. A comparative sequence analysis in resistant, recovered-sensitive, and resistant-recovered strains revealed permanent mutation. This is the first report of combinatorial serine-proline-arginine repeats in the ROD domain of beta-giardin, whereas such repeats have been reported previously in the HEAD domain of SF-assemblin proteins. This is the first time that the resistance to albendazole correlates with genetics but it is not necessarily caused by mutations in the beta-giardin gene of G. intestinalis.	2009 Jul	Jiménez-Cardoso, Enedina; Jiménez-Cardoso, E; Jiménez-Cardoso; Eligio-García, Leticia; Eligio-García, L; Eligio-García; Cortés-Campos, Adrián; Cortés-Campos, A; Cortés-Campos; Flores-Luna, Andrés; Flores-Luna, A; Flores-Luna; Valencia-Mayoral, Pedro; Valencia-Mayoral, P; Valencia-Mayoral; Lozada-Chávez, Irma; Lozada-Chávez, I; Lozada-Chávez	Parasitol Res
19376852	Role of the extracytoplasmic function sigma factor RpoE4 in oxidative and osmotic stress responses in Rhizobium etli.	The aims of this study were to functionally characterize and analyze the transcriptional regulation and transcriptome of the Rhizobium etli rpoE4 gene. An R. etli rpoE4 mutant was sensitive to oxidative, saline, and osmotic stresses. Using transcriptional fusions, we determined that RpoE4 controls its own transcription and that it is negatively regulated by rseF (regulator of sigma rpoE4; CH03274), which is cotranscribed with rpoE4. rpoE4 expression was induced not only after oxidative, saline, and osmotic shocks, but also under microaerobic and stationary-phase growth conditions. The transcriptome analyses of an rpoE4 mutant and an rpoE4-overexpressing strain revealed that the RpoE4 extracytoplasmic function sigma factor regulates about 98 genes; 50 of them have the rpoE4 promoter motifs in the upstream regulatory regions. Interestingly, 16 of 38 genes upregulated in the rpoE4-overexpressing strain encode unknown putative cell envelope proteins. Other genes controlled by RpoE4 include rpoH2, CH00462, CH02434, CH03474, and xthA1, which encode proteins involved in the stress response (a heat shock sigma factor, a putative Mn-catalase, an alkylation DNA repair protein, pyridoxine phosphate oxidase, and exonuclease III, respectively), as well as several genes, such as CH01253, CH03555, and PF00247, encoding putative proteins involved in cell envelope biogenesis (a putative peptidoglycan binding protein, a cell wall degradation protein, and phospholipase D, respectively). These results suggest that rpoE4 has a relevant function in cell envelope biogenesis and that it plays a role as a general regulator in the responses to several kinds of stress.	2009 Jul	Martínez-Salazar, Jaime M; Martínez-Salazar, JM; Martínez-Salazar; Salazar, Emmanuel; Salazar, E; Salazar; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Ramírez-Romero, Miguel A; Ramírez-Romero, MA; Ramírez-Romero; Rivera, Javier; Rivera, J; Rivera	J Bacteriol
19459961	Trehalose accumulation in Azospirillum brasilense improves drought tolerance and biomass in maize plants.	Bacteria of the genus Azospirillum increase the grain yield of several grass crops. In this work the effect of inoculating maize plants with genetically engineered Azospirillum brasilense for trehalose biosynthesis was determined. Transformed bacteria with a plasmid harboring a trehalose biosynthesis gene-fusion from Saccharomyces cerevisiae were able to grow up to 0.5 M NaCl and to accumulate trehalose, whereas wild-type A. brasilense did not tolerate osmotic stress or accumulate significant levels of the disaccharide. Moreover, 85% of maize plants inoculated with transformed A. brasilense survived drought stress, in contrast with only 55% of plants inoculated with the wild-type strain. A 73% increase in biomass of maize plants inoculated with transformed A. brasilense compared with inoculation with the wild-type strain was found. In addition, there was a significant increase of leaf and root length in maize plants inoculated with transformed A. brasilense. Therefore, inoculation of maize plants with A. brasilense containing higher levels of trehalose confers drought tolerance and a significant increase in leaf and root biomass. This work opens the possibility that A. brasilense modified with a chimeric trehalose biosynthetic gene from yeast could increase the biomass, grain yield and stress tolerance in other relevant crops.	2009 Jul	Rodríguez-Salazar, Julieta; Rodríguez-Salazar, J; Rodríguez-Salazar; Suárez, Ramón; Suárez, R; Suárez; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Iturriaga, Gabriel; Iturriaga, G; Iturriaga	FEMS Microbiol Lett
19439403	A eukaryote-like cardiolipin synthase is present in Streptomyces coelicolor and in most actinobacteria.	Cardiolipin (CL) is an anionic membrane lipid present in bacteria, plants, and animals, but absent from archaea. It is generally thought that bacteria use an enzyme belonging to the phospholipase D superfamily as cardiolipin synthase (Cls) catalyzing a reversible phosphatidyl group transfer from one phosphatidylglycerol (PG) molecule to another PG to form CL and glycerol. In contrast, in eukaryotes a Cls of the CDP-alcohol phosphatidyltransferase superfamily uses cytidine diphosphate-diacylglycerol (CDP-DAG) as the donor of the phosphatidyl group, which is transferred to a molecule of PG to form CL. Searching the genome of the actinomycete Streptomyces coelicolor A3(2) we identified a gene coding for a putative Cls of the CDP-alcohol phosphatidyltransferase superfamily (Sco1389). Here we show that expression of Sco1389 in a CL-deficient Rhizobium etli mutant restores CL formation. In an in vitro assay Sco1389 condenses CDP-DAG with PG to form CL and therefore catalyzes the same reaction as eukaryotic cardiolipin synthases. This is the first time that a CDP-alcohol phosphatidyltransferase from bacteria is shown to be responsible for CL formation. The broad occurrence of putative orthologues of Sco1389 among the actinobacteria suggests that CL synthesis involving a eukaryotic type Cls is common in actinobacteria.	2009 Jun	Sandoval-Calderón, Mario; Sandoval-Calderón, M; Sandoval-Calderón; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Guan, Ziqiang; Guan, Z; Guan; Barona-Gómez, Francisco; Barona-Gómez, F; Barona-Gómez; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	J Biol Chem
19376903	Rhizobium sp. strain NGR234 possesses a remarkable number of secretion systems.	Rhizobium sp. strain NGR234 is a unique alphaproteobacterium (order Rhizobiales) that forms nitrogen-fixing nodules with more legumes than any other microsymbiont. We report here that the 3.93-Mbp chromosome (cNGR234) encodes most functions required for cellular growth. Few essential functions are encoded on the 2.43-Mbp megaplasmid (pNGR234b), and none are present on the second 0.54-Mbp symbiotic plasmid (pNGR234a). Among many striking features, the 6.9-Mbp genome encodes more different secretion systems than any other known rhizobia and probably most known bacteria. Altogether, 132 genes and proteins are linked to secretory processes. Secretion systems identified include general and export pathways, a twin arginine translocase secretion system, six type I transporter genes, one functional and one putative type III system, three type IV attachment systems, and two putative type IV conjugation pili. Type V and VI transporters were not identified, however. NGR234 also carries genes and regulatory networks linked to the metabolism of a wide range of aromatic and nonaromatic compounds. In this way, NGR234 can quickly adapt to changing environmental stimuli in soils, rhizospheres, and plants. Finally, NGR234 carries at least six loci linked to the quenching of quorum-sensing signals, as well as one gene (ngrI) that possibly encodes a novel type of autoinducer I molecule.	2009 Jun	Schmeisser, Christel; Schmeisser, C; Schmeisser; Liesegang, Heiko; Liesegang, H; Liesegang; Krysciak, Dagmar; Krysciak, D; Krysciak; Bakkou, Nadia; Bakkou, N; Bakkou; Le Quéré, Antoine; Le Quéré, A; Le Quéré; Wollherr, Antje; Wollherr, A; Wollherr; Heinemeyer, Isabelle; Heinemeyer, I; Heinemeyer; Morgenstern, Burkhard; Morgenstern, B; Morgenstern; Pommerening-Röser, Andreas; Pommerening-Röser, A; Pommerening-Röser; Flores, Margarita; Flores, M; Flores; Palacios, Rafael; Palacios, R; Palacios; Brenner, Sydney; Brenner, S; Brenner; Gottschalk, Gerhard; Gottschalk, G; Gottschalk; Schmitz, Ruth A; Schmitz, RA; Schmitz; Broughton, William J; Broughton, WJ; Broughton; Perret, Xavier; Perret, X; Perret; Strittmatter, Axel W; Strittmatter, AW; Strittmatter; Streit, Wolfgang R; Streit, WR; Streit	Appl Environ Microbiol
19502326	Pseudomonas cuatrocienegasensis sp. nov., isolated from an evaporating lagoon in the Cuatro Cienegas valley in Coahuila, Mexico.	Nine Gram-negative, rod-shaped, non-spore-forming isolates with identical or very similar repetitive-sequence-based PCR profiles were recovered from an evaporative lagoon in Mexico. Two strains, designated 1N(T) and 3N, had virtually identical 16S rRNA gene sequences and, on the basis of these sequences, were identified as members of the genus Pseudomonas, with Pseudomonas peli R-20805(T) as the closest relative. All nine isolates had practically identical whole-cell protein profiles. The major fatty acids [C(16 : 0,) C(18 : 1)omega7c and summed feature a (C(16 : 1)omega7 and/or C(16 : 1)omega6c)] of strains 1N(T) and 3N supported their affiliation with the genus Pseudomonas. The DNA-DNA reassociation values with respect to P. peli LMG 23201(T) and other closely related Pseudomonas species were <15 %. Physiological and biochemical tests allowed phenotypic differentiation of the strains analysed, including strain 1N(T), from the five phylogenetically closest Pseudomonas species. On the basis of the data obtained by using this polyphasic taxonomic approach, the nine strains represent a novel species, for which the name Pseudomonas cuatrocienegasensis sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is 1N(T) (=LMG 24676(T)=CIP 109853(T)).	2009 Jun	Escalante, Ana E; Escalante, AE; Escalante; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Martínez-Aguilar, Lourdes; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar; Rodríguez-Verdugo, Alejandra; Rodríguez-Verdugo, A; Rodríguez-Verdugo; González-González, Andrea; González-González, A; González-González; Toribio-Jiménez, Jeiry; Toribio-Jiménez, J; Toribio-Jiménez; Souza, Valeria; Souza, V; Souza	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
19291210	Pseudomonas fluorescens and closely-related fluorescent pseudomonads as biocontrol agents of soil-borne phytopathogens.	Many strains of Pseudomonas fluorescens show potential for biological control of phytopathogens especially root pathogens. In taxonomic terms, several of them are indeed P. fluorescens sensu stricto, while others belong in fact to neighbouring species of the 'P. fluorescens' complex or to ill-defined related species within the fluorescent Pseudomonas spp. These bacteria have become prominent models for rhizosphere ecological studies and analysis of bacterial secondary metabolism, and in recent years knowledge on their plant-beneficial traits has been considerably enhanced by widening the focus beyond the case of phytopathogen-directed antagonism. Current genomic analyses of rhizosphere competence and biocontrol traits will likely lead to the development of novel tools for effective management of indigenous and inoculated P. fluorescens biocontrol agents and a better exploitation of their plant-beneficial properties for sustainable agriculture.	2009 May	Couillerot, O; Couillerot, O; Couillerot; Prigent-Combaret, C; Prigent-Combaret, C; Prigent-Combaret; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Moënne-Loccoz, Y; Moënne-Loccoz, Y; Moënne-Loccoz	Lett Appl Microbiol
19118366	SMb20651 is another acyl carrier protein from Sinorhizobium meliloti.	Acyl carrier proteins (ACPs) are small acidic proteins that carry growing acyl chains during fatty acid or polyketide synthesis. In rhizobia, there are four different and well-characterized ACPs: AcpP, NodF, AcpXL and RkpF. The genome sequence of Sinorhizobium meliloti 1021 reveals two additional ORFs that possibly encode additional ACPs. One of these, smb20651, is located on the plasmid pSymB as part of an operon. The genes of the operon encode a putative asparagine synthetase (AsnB), the predicted ACP (SMb20651), a putative long-chain fatty acyl-CoA ligase (SMb20650) and a putative ammonium-dependent NAD+ synthetase (NadE1). When SMb20651 was overexpressed in Escherichia coli, [3H]beta-alanine, a biosynthetic building block of 4'-phosphopantetheine, was incorporated into the protein in vivo. The purified SMb20651 was modified with 4'-phosphopantetheine in the presence of S. meliloti holo-ACP synthase (AcpS). Also, holo-SMb20651 was modified in vitro with a malonyl group by malonyl CoA-ACP transacylase. In E. coli, coexpression of SMb20651 together with other proteins such as AcpS and SMb20650 led to the formation of additional forms of SMb20651. In this bacterium, acylation of SMb20651 with C12 : 0 or C18 : 0 fatty acids was detected, demonstrating that this protein is involved in fatty acid biosynthesis or transfer. Expression of SMb20651 was detected in S. meliloti as holo-SMb20651 and acyl-SMb20651.	2009 Jan	Ramos-Vega, Ana Laura; Ramos-Vega, AL; Ramos-Vega; Dávila-Martínez, Yadira; Dávila-Martínez, Y; Dávila-Martínez; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Contreras-Martínez, Sandra; Contreras-Martínez, S; Contreras-Martínez; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara	Microbiology (Reading)
19202087	The Rhizobium etli RpoH1 and RpoH2 sigma factors are involved in different stress responses.	The physiological role and transcriptional expression of Rhizobium etli sigma factors rpoH1 and rpoH2 are reported in this work. Both rpoH1 and rpoH2 were able to complement the temperature-sensitive phenotype of an Escherichia coli rpoH mutant. The R. etli rpoH1 mutant was sensitive to heat shock, sodium hypochlorite and hydrogen peroxide, whereas the rpoH2 mutant was sensitive to NaCl and sucrose. The rpoH2 rpoH1 double mutant had increased sensitivity to heat shock and oxidative stress when compared with the rpoH1 single mutant. This suggests that in R. etli, RpoH1 is the main heat-shock sigma factor, but a more complete protective response could be achieved with the participation of RpoH2. Conversely, RpoH2 is involved in osmotic tolerance. In symbiosis with bean plants, the R. etli rpoH1 and rpoH2 rpoH1 mutants still elicited nodule formation, but exhibited reduced nitrogenase activity and bacterial viability in early and late symbiosis compared with nodules produced by rpoH2 mutants and wild-type strains. In addition, nodules formed by R. etli rpoH1 and rpoH2 rpoH1 mutants showed premature senescence. It was also determined that fixNf and fixKf expression was affected in rpoH1 mutants. Both rpoH genes were induced under microaerobic conditions and in the stationary growth phase, but not in response to heat shock. Analysis of the upstream region of rpoH1 revealed a sigma70 and a probable sigmaE promoter, whereas in rpoH2, one probable sigmaE-dependent promoter was detected. In conclusion, the two RpoH proteins operate under different stress conditions, RpoH1 in heat-shock and oxidative responses, and RpoH2 in osmotic tolerance.	2009 Feb	Martínez-Salazar, Jaime M; Martínez-Salazar, JM; Martínez-Salazar; Sandoval-Calderón, Mario; Sandoval-Calderón, M; Sandoval-Calderón; Guo, Xianwu; Guo, X; Guo; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Reyes, Alma; Reyes, A; Reyes; Loza, Maria G; Loza, MG; Loza; Rivera, Javier; Rivera, J; Rivera; Alvarado-Affantranger, Xochitl; Alvarado-Affantranger, X; Alvarado-Affantranger; Sánchez, Federico; Sánchez, F; Sánchez; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; Ramírez-Romero, Miguel A; Ramírez-Romero, MA; Ramírez-Romero	Microbiology (Reading)
19040456	Burkholderia spp. are the most competitive symbionts of Mimosa, particularly under N-limited conditions.	Bacteria isolated from Mimosa nodules in Taiwan, Papua New Guinea, Mexico and Puerto Rico were identified as belonging to either the alpha- or beta-proteobacteria. The beta-proteobacterial Burkholderia and Cupriavidus strains formed effective symbioses with the common invasive species Mimosa diplotricha, M. pigra and M. pudica, but the alpha-proteobacterial Rhizobium etli and R. tropici strains produced a range of symbiotic phenotypes from no nodulation through ineffective to effective nodulation, depending on Mimosa species. Competition studies were performed between three of the alpha-proteobacteria (R. etli TJ167, R. tropici NGR181 and UPRM8021) and two of the beta-rhizobial symbionts (Burkholderia mimosarum PAS44 and Cupriavidus taiwanensis LMG19424) for nodulation of these invasive Mimosa species. Under flooded conditions, B. mimosarum PAS44 out-competed LMG19424 and all three alpha-proteobacteria to the point of exclusion. This advantage was not explained by initial inoculum levels, rates of bacterial growth, rhizobia-rhizobia growth inhibition or individual nodulation rate. However, the competitive domination of PAS44 over LMG19424 was reduced in the presence of nitrate for all three plant hosts. The largest significant effect was for M. pudica, in which LMG19424 formed 57% of the nodules in the presence of 0.5 mM potassium nitrate. In this host, ammonium also had a similar, but lesser, effect. Comparable results were also found using an N-containing soil mixture, and environmental N levels are therefore suggested as a factor in the competitive success of the bacterial symbiont in vivo.	2009 Apr	Elliott, Geoffrey N; Elliott, GN; Elliott; Chou, Jui-Hsing; Chou, JH; Chou; Chen, Wen-Ming; Chen, WM; Chen; Bloemberg, Guido V; Bloemberg, GV; Bloemberg; Bontemps, Cyril; Bontemps, C; Bontemps; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Velázquez, Encarna; Velázquez, E; Velázquez; Young, J Peter W; Young, JP; Young; Sprent, Janet I; Sprent, JI; Sprent; James, Euan K; James, EK; James	Environ Microbiol
19305506	Filling kinetic gaps: dynamic modeling of metabolism where detailed kinetic information is lacking.	Integrative analysis between dynamical modeling of metabolic networks and data obtained from high throughput technology represents a worthy effort toward a holistic understanding of the link among phenotype and dynamical response. Even though the theoretical foundation for modeling metabolic network has been extensively treated elsewhere, the lack of kinetic information has limited the analysis in most of the cases. To overcome this constraint, we present and illustrate a new statistical approach that has two purposes: integrate high throughput data and survey the general dynamical mechanisms emerging for a slightly perturbed metabolic network.	2009	Resendis-Antonio, Osbaldo; Resendis-Antonio, O; Resendis-Antonio	PLoS One
19265557	DISTILLER: a data integration framework to reveal condition dependency of complex regulons in Escherichia coli.	We present DISTILLER, a data integration framework for the inference of transcriptional module networks. Experimental validation of predicted targets for the well-studied fumarate nitrate reductase regulator showed the effectiveness of our approach in Escherichia coli. In addition, the condition dependency and modularity of the inferred transcriptional network was studied. Surprisingly, the level of regulatory complexity seemed lower than that which would be expected from RegulonDB, indicating that complex regulatory programs tend to decrease the degree of modularity.	2009	Lemmens, Karen; Lemmens, K; Lemmens; De Bie, Tijl; De Bie, T; De Bie; Dhollander, Thomas; Dhollander, T; Dhollander; De Keersmaecker, Sigrid C; De Keersmaecker, SC; De Keersmaecker; Thijs, Inge M; Thijs, IM; Thijs; Schoofs, Geert; Schoofs, G; Schoofs; De Weerdt, Ami; De Weerdt, A; De Weerdt; De Moor, Bart; De Moor, B; De Moor; Vanderleyden, Jos; Vanderleyden, J; Vanderleyden; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Engelen, Kristof; Engelen, K; Engelen; Marchal, Kathleen; Marchal, K; Marchal	Genome Biol
19071199	Differential roles of proteins involved in migration of Holliday junctions on recombination and tolerance to DNA damaging agents in Rhizobium etli.	The recombination genes involved in Holliday junction migration (ruvB, recG, radA) and heteroduplex editing (mutS) were studied in the alpha-proteobacterium Rhizobium etli. The genes were interrupted with a loxPSp interposon and R. etli mutants, either single or in combination, were constructed by marker exchange. Our results show that these systems play a differential role in sensitivity to DNA damaging agents and recombination in R. etli. RuvB appears to be the main system for tolerance toward agents instigating single- or double-strand breaks (such as UV light, methyl methanesulphonate and nalidixic acid) while the RecG and RadA systems play minor roles in tolerance to these agents. Using five different recombination assays, we have found that a ruvB null mutant showed a notable reduction in recombination proficiency, while a radA mutant was only weakly affected. A null mutation in recG had the opposite effect, enhancing recombination in most of our assays. This effect was more clearly seen in an assay that measured recombination between divergent sequences (i.e. homeologous), but is unaffected by inactivation of mutS. These data indicate that RecG in R. etli limits intra- and intergenomic plasticity.	2009 Mar	Martínez-Salazar, Jaime M; Martínez-Salazar, JM; Martínez-Salazar; Zuñiga-Castillo, Jacobo; Zuñiga-Castillo, J; Zuñiga-Castillo; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero	Gene
19231290	Phenotypic differences between BCG vaccines at the proteome level.	To contribute to Mycobacterium bovis BCG characterization, two substrains were analyzed using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2D-PAGE) and mass spectrometry (MS), based on their protective efficacy in a pulmonary-tuberculosis mouse model. Cell-fraction proteins of BCG Denmark and Phipps substrains were separated into approximately 500 spots in 2D-PAGE. The proteomes were similar in protein number, and isoelectric point (pI) and molecular mass (MM) distribution. Statistical analysis, resulted in 72 spots with no change, and 168 and 90 unique for BCG Phipps or Denmark, respectively. Two hundred and fourteen spots showed changes in intensity of >1-fold, 138 of Denmark, and 76 of Phipps. Seventeen spots were selected for MS-based identification (13 from Phipps and 4 from Denmark), including unique, as well as proteins with changes in intensity. The proteins identified participate in virulence, detoxification, adaptation, lipid metabolism, information pathways, cell wall and cell processes, intermediary metabolism and respiration, or still hypotheticals. Our findings contribute to phenotype characterization of BCG substrains and provide new elements to consider for the design of diagnostic tools, drug targets and a new vaccine against tuberculosis based upon protein expression through quantitative statistical analysis.	2009 Mar	Rodríguez-Alvarez, Mauricio; Rodríguez-Alvarez, M; Rodríguez-Alvarez; Mendoza-Hernández, Guillermo; Mendoza-Hernández, G; Mendoza-Hernández; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Calva, Juan José; Calva, JJ; Calva; López-Vidal, Yolanda; López-Vidal, Y; López-Vidal	Tuberculosis (Edinb)
19348629	The condition-dependent transcriptional network in Escherichia coli.	Thanks to the availability of high-throughput omics data, bioinformatics approaches are able to hypothesize thus-far undocumented genetic interactions. However, due to the amount of noise in these data, inferences based on a single data source are often unreliable. A popular approach to overcome this problem is to integrate different data sources. In this study, we describe DISTILLER, a novel framework for data integration that simultaneously analyzes microarray and motif information to find modules that consist of genes that are co-expressed in a subset of conditions, and their corresponding regulators. By applying our method on publicly available data, we evaluated the condition-specific transcriptional network of Escherichia coli. DISTILLER confirmed 62% of 736 interactions described in RegulonDB, and 278 novel interactions were predicted.	2009 Mar	Lemmens, Karen; Lemmens, K; Lemmens; De Bie, Tijl; De Bie, T; De Bie; Dhollander, Thomas; Dhollander, T; Dhollander; Monsieurs, Pieter; Monsieurs, P; Monsieurs; De Moor, Bart; De Moor, B; De Moor; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Engelen, Kristof; Engelen, K; Engelen; Marchal, Kathleen; Marchal, K; Marchal	Ann N Y Acad Sci
19139238	Transcriptional regulation and signal-peptide-dependent secretion of exolevanase (LsdB) in the endophyte Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus.	Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus utilizes plant sucrose with a constitutively expressed levansucrase (LsdA), producing extracellular levan, which may be degraded under energetically unfavored conditions. Reverse transcriptase-PCR analysis revealed that lsdA and the downstream exolevanase gene (lsdB) form an operon. lsdB transcription was induced during growth with low fructose concentrations (0.44 to 33 mM) and repressed by glucose. Transport of LsdB to the periplasm involved N-terminal signal peptide cleavage. Type II secretion mutants failed to transfer LsdB across the outer membrane, impeding levan hydrolysis.	2009 Mar	Menéndez, Carmen; Menéndez, C; Menéndez; Banguela, Alexander; Banguela, A; Banguela; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Hernández, Lázaro; Hernández, L; Hernández	Appl Environ Microbiol
18974181	EcoCyc: a comprehensive view of Escherichia coli biology.	EcoCyc (http://EcoCyc.org) provides a comprehensive encyclopedia of Escherichia coli biology. EcoCyc integrates information about the genome, genes and gene products; the metabolic network; and the regulatory network of E. coli. Recent EcoCyc developments include a new initiative to represent and curate all types of E. coli regulatory processes such as attenuation and regulation by small RNAs. EcoCyc has started to curate Gene Ontology (GO) terms for E. coli and has made a dataset of E. coli GO terms available through the GO Web site. The curation and visualization of electron transfer processes has been significantly improved. Other software and Web site enhancements include the addition of tracks to the EcoCyc genome browser, in particular a type of track designed for the display of ChIP-chip datasets, and the development of a comparative genome browser. A new Genome Omics Viewer enables users to paint omics datasets onto the full E. coli genome for analysis. A new advanced query page guides users in interactively constructing complex database queries against EcoCyc. A Macintosh version of EcoCyc is now available. A series of Webinars is available to instruct users in the use of EcoCyc.	2009 Jan	Keseler, Ingrid M; Keseler, IM; Keseler; Bonavides-Martínez, César; Bonavides-Martínez, C; Bonavides-Martínez; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Gunsalus, Robert P; Gunsalus, RP; Gunsalus; Johnson, D Aaron; Johnson, DA; Johnson; Krummenacker, Markus; Krummenacker, M; Krummenacker; Nolan, Laura M; Nolan, LM; Nolan; Paley, Suzanne; Paley, S; Paley; Paulsen, Ian T; Paulsen, IT; Paulsen; Peralta-Gil, Martin; Peralta-Gil, M; Peralta-Gil; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Shearer, Alexander Glennon; Shearer, AG; Shearer; Karp, Peter D; Karp, PD; Karp	Nucleic Acids Res
19076632	Regulation by transcription factors in bacteria: beyond description.	Transcription is an essential step in gene expression and its understanding has been one of the major interests in molecular and cellular biology. By precisely tuning gene expression, transcriptional regulation determines the molecular machinery for developmental plasticity, homeostasis and adaptation. In this review, we transmit the main ideas or concepts behind regulation by transcription factors and give just enough examples to sustain these main ideas, thus avoiding a classical ennumeration of facts. We review recent concepts and developments: cis elements and trans regulatory factors, chromosome organization and structure, transcriptional regulatory networks (TRNs) and transcriptomics. We also summarize new important discoveries that will probably affect the direction of research in gene regulation: epigenetics and stochasticity in transcriptional regulation, synthetic circuits and plasticity and evolution of TRNs. Many of the new discoveries in gene regulation are not extensively tested with wetlab approaches. Consequently, we review this broad area in Inference of TRNs and Dynamical Models of TRNs. Finally, we have stepped backwards to trace the origins of these modern concepts, synthesizing their history in a timeline schema.	2009 Jan	Balleza, Enrique; Balleza, E; Balleza; López-Bojorquez, Lucia N; López-Bojorquez, LN; López-Bojorquez; Martínez-Antonio, Agustino; Martínez-Antonio, A; Martínez-Antonio; Resendis-Antonio, Osbaldo; Resendis-Antonio, O; Resendis-Antonio; Lozada-Chávez, Irma; Lozada-Chávez, I; Lozada-Chávez; Balderas-Martínez, Yalbi I; Balderas-Martínez, YI; Balderas-Martínez; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	FEMS Microbiol Rev
19120461	Rhizobia with different symbiotic efficiencies nodulate Acaciella angustissima in Mexico, including Sinorhizobium chiapanecum sp. nov. which has common symbiotic genes with Sinorhizobium mexicanum.	Bacteria from nodules of the legume Acaciella angustissima native to the south of Mexico were characterized genetically and their nodulation and competitiveness were evaluated. Phylogenetic studies derived from rpoB gene sequences indicated that A. angustissima is nodulated by Sinorhizobium mexicanum, Rhizobium tropici, Mesorhizobium plurifarium and Agrobacterium tumefaciens and by bacteria related to Sinorhizobium americanum, Sinorhizobium terangae, Rhizobium etli and Rhizobium gallicum. A new lineage related to S. terangae is recognized based on the sequences of gyrA, nolR, recA, rpoB and rrs genes, DNA-DNA hybridization and phenotypic characteristics. The name for this new species is Sinorhizobium chiapanecum and its type strain is ITTG S70T. The symbiotic genes nodA and nifH were similar to those from S. mexicanum strains, which are Acaciella symbionts as well, with nodA gene sequences grouped within a cluster of nod genes from strains that nodulate plants from the Mimosoideae subfamily of the Leguminosae. Sinorhizobium isolates were the most frequently obtained from A. angustissima nodules and were among the best strains to promote plant growth in A. angustissima and to compete in interstrain nodule competition assays. Lateral transfer of symbiotic genes is not evident among the genera that nodulate A. angustissima (Rhizobium, Sinorhizobium and Mesorhizobium) but may occur among the sympatric and closely related sinorhizobia that nodulate Acaciella.	2009 Jan	Rincón-Rosales, Reiner; Rincón-Rosales, R; Rincón-Rosales; Lloret, Lourdes; Lloret, L; Lloret; Ponce, Edith; Ponce, E; Ponce; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	FEMS Microbiol Ecol
18771575	Essential role of MYB transcription factor: PvPHR1 and microRNA: PvmiR399 in phosphorus-deficiency signalling in common bean roots.	Phosphorus (P), an essential element for plants, is one of the most limiting nutrients for plant growth. A few transcription factor (TF) genes involved in P-starvation signalling have been characterized for Arabidopsis thaliana and rice. Crop production of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.), the most important legume for human consumption, is often limited by low P in the soil. Despite its agronomic importance, nothing is known about transcriptional regulation in P-deficient bean plants. We functionally characterized the P-deficiency-induced MYB TF TC3604 (Dana Farber Cancer Institute, Common Bean Gene Index v.2.0), ortholog to AtPHR1 (PvPHR1). For its study, we applied RNAi technology in bean composite plants. PvPHR1 is a positive regulator of genes implicated in P transport, remobilization and homeostasis. Although there are no reports on the regulatory roles of microRNAs (miRNA) in bean, we demonstrated that PvmiR399 is an essential component of the PvPHR1 signalling pathway. The analysis of DICER-like1 (PvDCL1) silenced bean composite plants suppressed for accumulation of PvmiR399 and other miRNAs suggested that miR399 is a negative regulator of the ubiquitin E2 conjugase: PvPHO2 expression. Our results set the basis for understanding the signalling for P-starvation responses in common bean and may contribute to crop improvement.	2008 Dec	Valdés-López, Oswaldo; Valdés-López, O; Valdés-López; Arenas-Huertero, Catalina; Arenas-Huertero, C; Arenas-Huertero; Ramírez, Mario; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Sánchez, Federico; Sánchez, F; Sánchez; Vance, Carroll P; Vance, CP; Vance; Luis Reyes, José; Luis Reyes, J; Luis Reyes; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	Plant Cell Environ
18973688	Factors affecting the concordance between orthologous gene trees and species tree in bacteria.	As originally defined, orthologous genes implied a reflection of the history of the species. In recent years, many studies have examined the concordance between orthologous gene trees and species trees in bacteria. These studies have produced contradictory results that may have been influenced by orthologous gene misidentification and artefactual phylogenetic reconstructions. Here, using a method that allows the detection and exclusion of false positives during identification of orthologous genes, we address the question of whether putative orthologous genes within bacteria really reflect the history of the species.	2008 Oct	Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; González, Víctor; González, V; González	BMC Evol Biol
18989367	A comparative structural bioinformatics analysis of the insulin receptor family ectodomain based on phylogenetic information.	The insulin receptor (IR), the insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF1R) and the insulin receptor-related receptor (IRR) are covalently-linked homodimers made up of several structural domains. The molecular mechanism of ligand binding to the ectodomain of these receptors and the resulting activation of their tyrosine kinase domain is still not well understood. We have carried out an amino acid residue conservation analysis in order to reconstruct the phylogeny of the IR Family. We have confirmed the location of ligand binding site 1 of the IGF1R and IR. Importantly, we have also predicted the likely location of the insulin binding site 2 on the surface of the fibronectin type III domains of the IR. An evolutionary conserved surface on the second leucine-rich domain that may interact with the ligand could not be detected. We suggest a possible mechanical trigger of the activation of the IR that involves a slight 'twist' rotation of the last two fibronectin type III domains in order to face the likely location of insulin. Finally, a strong selective pressure was found amongst the IRR orthologous sequences, suggesting that this orphan receptor has a yet unknown physiological role which may be conserved from amphibians to mammals.	2008	Rentería, Miguel E; Rentería, ME; Rentería; Gandhi, Neha S; Gandhi, NS; Gandhi; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Helmerhorst, Erik; Helmerhorst, E; Helmerhorst; Mancera, Ricardo L; Mancera, RL; Mancera	PLoS One
18989455	High-resolution copy-number variation map reflects human olfactory receptor diversity and evolution.	Olfactory receptors (ORs), which are involved in odorant recognition, form the largest mammalian protein superfamily. The genomic content of OR genes is considerably reduced in humans, as reflected by the relatively small repertoire size and the high fraction ( approximately 55%) of human pseudogenes. Since several recent low-resolution surveys suggested that OR genomic loci are frequently affected by copy-number variants (CNVs), we hypothesized that CNVs may play an important role in the evolution of the human olfactory repertoire. We used high-resolution oligonucleotide tiling microarrays to detect CNVs across 851 OR gene and pseudogene loci. Examining genomic DNA from 25 individuals with ancestry from three populations, we identified 93 OR gene loci and 151 pseudogene loci affected by CNVs, generating a mosaic of OR dosages across persons. Our data suggest that approximately 50% of the CNVs involve more than one OR, with the largest CNV spanning 11 loci. In contrast to earlier reports, we observe that CNVs are more frequent among OR pseudogenes than among intact genes, presumably due to both selective constraints and CNV formation biases. Furthermore, our results show an enrichment of CNVs among ORs with a close human paralog or lacking a one-to-one ortholog in chimpanzee. Interestingly, among the latter we observed an enrichment in CNV losses over gains, a finding potentially related to the known diminution of the human OR repertoire. Quantitative PCR experiments performed for 122 sampled ORs agreed well with the microarray results and uncovered 23 additional CNVs. Importantly, these experiments allowed us to uncover nine common deletion alleles that affect 15 OR genes and five pseudogenes. Comparison to the chimpanzee reference genome revealed that all of the deletion alleles are human derived, therefore indicating a profound effect of human-specific deletions on the individual OR gene content. Furthermore, these deletion alleles may be used in future genetic association studies of olfactory inter-individual differences.	2008 Nov	Hasin, Yehudit; Hasin, Y; Hasin; Olender, Tsviya; Olender, T; Olender; Khen, Miriam; Khen, M; Khen; Gonzaga-Jauregui, Claudia; Gonzaga-Jauregui, C; Gonzaga-Jauregui; Kim, Philip M; Kim, PM; Kim; Urban, Alexander Eckehart; Urban, AE; Urban; Snyder, Michael; Snyder, M; Snyder; Gerstein, Mark B; Gerstein, MB; Gerstein; Lancet, Doron; Lancet, D; Lancet; Korbel, Jan O; Korbel, JO; Korbel	PLoS Genet
18791003	Multilocus sequence analysis for assessment of the biogeography and evolutionary genetics of four Bradyrhizobium species that nodulate soybeans on the asiatic continent.	A highly supported maximum-likelihood species phylogeny for the genus Bradyrhizobium was inferred from a supermatrix obtained from the concatenation of partial atpD, recA, glnII, and rpoB sequences corresponding to 33 reference strains and 76 bradyrhizobia isolated from the nodules of Glycine max (soybean) trap plants inoculated with soil samples from Myanmar, India, Nepal, and Vietnam. The power of the multigene approach using multiple strains per species was evaluated in terms of overall tree resolution and phylogenetic congruence, representing a practical and portable option for bacterial molecular systematics. Potential pitfalls of the approach are highlighted. Seventy-five of the isolates could be classified as B. japonicum type Ia (USDA110/USDA122-like), B. liaoningense, B. yuanmingense, or B. elkanii, whereas one represented a novel Bradyrhizobium lineage. Most Nepalese B. japonicum Ia isolates belong to a highly epidemic clone closely related to strain USDA110. Significant phylogenetic evidence against the monophyly of the of B. japonicum I and Ia lineages was found. Analysis of their DNA polymorphisms revealed high population distances, significant genetic differentiation, and contrasting population genetic structures, suggesting that the strains in the Ia lineage are misclassified as B. japonicum. The DNA polymorphism patterns of all species conformed to the expectations of the neutral mutation and population equilibrium models and, excluding the B. japonicum Ia lineage, were consistent with intermediate recombination levels. All species displayed epidemic clones and had broad geographic and environmental distribution ranges, as revealed by mapping climate types and geographic origins of the isolates on the species tree.	2008 Nov	Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Rojas-Jiménez, Keilor; Rojas-Jiménez, K; Rojas-Jiménez; Contreras-Moreira, Bruno; Contreras-Moreira, B; Contreras-Moreira; Mahna, Suresh K; Mahna, SK; Mahna; Prasad, Braj Nandan; Prasad, BN; Prasad; Moe, Hla; Moe, H; Moe; Selvaraju, Suresh Babu; Selvaraju, SB; Selvaraju; Thierfelder, Heidemarie; Thierfelder, H; Thierfelder; Werner, Dietrich; Werner, D; Werner	Appl Environ Microbiol
18954463	Functional architecture of Escherichia coli: new insights provided by a natural decomposition approach.	Previous studies have used different methods in an effort to extract the modular organization of transcriptional regulatory networks. However, these approaches are not natural, as they try to cluster strongly connected genes into a module or locate known pleiotropic transcription factors in lower hierarchical layers. Here, we unravel the transcriptional regulatory network of Escherichia coli by separating it into its key elements, thus revealing its natural organization. We also present a mathematical criterion, based on the topological features of the transcriptional regulatory network, to classify the network elements into one of two possible classes: hierarchical or modular genes.	2008 Oct	Freyre-González, Julio A; Freyre-González, JA; Freyre-González; Alonso-Pavón, José A; Alonso-Pavón, JA; Alonso-Pavón; Treviño-Quintanilla, Luis G; Treviño-Quintanilla, LG; Treviño-Quintanilla; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Genome Biol
18922190	Prediction of TF target sites based on atomistic models of protein-DNA complexes.	The specific recognition of genomic cis-regulatory elements by transcription factors (TFs) plays an essential role in the regulation of coordinated gene expression. Studying the mechanisms determining binding specificity in protein-DNA interactions is thus an important goal. Most current approaches for modeling TF specific recognition rely on the knowledge of large sets of cognate target sites and consider only the information contained in their primary sequence.	2008 Oct	Angarica, Vladimir Espinosa; Angarica, VE; Angarica; Pérez, Abel González; Pérez, AG; Pérez; Vasconcelos, Ana T; Vasconcelos, AT; Vasconcelos; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Contreras-Moreira, Bruno; Contreras-Moreira, B; Contreras-Moreira	BMC Bioinformatics
18840678	Transcriptional regulation constrains the organization of genes on eukaryotic chromosomes.	Genetic material in eukaryotes is tightly packaged in a hierarchical manner into multiple linear chromosomes within the nucleus. Although it is known that eukaryotic transcriptional regulation is complex and requires an intricate coordination of several molecular events both in space and time, whether the complexity of this process constrains genome organization is still unknown. Here, we present evidence for the existence of a higher-order organization of genes across and within chromosomes that is constrained by transcriptional regulation. In particular, we reveal that the target genes (TGs) of transcription factors (TFs) for the yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, are encoded in a highly ordered manner both across and within the 16 chromosomes. We show that (i) the TGs of a majority of TFs show a strong preference to be encoded on specific chromosomes, (ii) the TGs of a significant number of TFs display a strong preference (or avoidance) to be encoded in regions containing particular chromosomal landmarks such as telomeres and centromeres, and (iii) the TGs of most TFs are positionally clustered within a chromosome. Our results demonstrate that specific organization of genes that allowed for efficient control of transcription within the nuclear space has been selected during evolution. We anticipate that uncovering such higher-order organization of genes in other eukaryotes will provide insights into nuclear architecture, and will have implications in genetic engineering experiments, gene therapy, and understanding disease conditions that involve chromosomal aberrations.	2008 Oct	Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Babu, M Madan; Babu, MM; Babu	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
18940741	In silico analysis of protein neoplastic biomarkers for cervix and uterine cancer.	Worldwide, cervical and uterine cancers are the most deadly cancers in women, with high prevalences, especially in developing countries. The Human Protein Atlas (HPA) portal was explored for proteins expressed in a tissue- or cervix and uterine cancer-specific manner. The group of proteins differentially expressed and with enhanced expression in the glandular and surface epithelial (squamous) cells retrieved from HPA were further explored using the Protein Information and Knowledge Extractor (PIKE) portal to compile biological information that is found in different databases, and repositories on the Internet. Thus, the lists of candidate proteins found in HPA, and PIKE portals may be used as a starting point for the discovery and validation of biomarkers for cervix and uterine cancer employing proteomics approaches as described in the present article.	2008 Oct	Rodríguez-Pérez, Mario A; Rodríguez-Pérez, MA; Rodríguez-Pérez; Medina-Aunon, Alberto; Medina-Aunon, A; Medina-Aunon; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio M; Encarnación-Guevara, SM; Encarnación-Guevara; Bernal-Silvia, Sofia; Bernal-Silvia, S; Bernal-Silvia; Barrera-Saldaña, Hugo; Barrera-Saldaña, H; Barrera-Saldaña; Albar-Ramírez, Juan Pablo; Albar-Ramírez, JP; Albar-Ramírez	Clin Transl Oncol
18708506	Sinorhizobium meliloti mutants deficient in phosphatidylserine decarboxylase accumulate phosphatidylserine and are strongly affected during symbiosis with alfalfa.	Sinorhizobium meliloti contains phosphatidylglycerol, cardiolipin, phosphatidylcholine, and phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) as major membrane lipids. PE is formed in two steps. In the first step, phosphatidylserine synthase (Pss) condenses serine with CDP-diglyceride to form phosphatidylserine (PS), and in the second step, PS is decarboxylated by phosphatidylserine decarboxylase (Psd) to form PE. In this study we identified the sinorhizobial psd gene coding for Psd. A sinorhizobial mutant deficient in psd is unable to form PE but accumulates the anionic phospholipid PS. Properties of PE-deficient mutants lacking either Pss or Psd were compared with those of the S. meliloti wild type. Whereas both PE-deficient mutants grew in a wild-type-like manner on many complex media, they were unable to grow on minimal medium containing high phosphate concentrations. Surprisingly, the psd-deficient mutant could grow on minimal medium containing low concentrations of inorganic phosphate, while the pss-deficient mutant could not. Addition of choline to the minimal medium rescued growth of the pss-deficient mutant, CS111, to some extent but inhibited growth of the psd-deficient mutant, MAV01. When the two distinct PE-deficient mutants were analyzed for their ability to form a nitrogen-fixing root nodule symbiosis with their alfalfa host plant, they behaved strikingly differently. The Pss-deficient mutant, CS111, initiated nodule formation at about the same time point as the wild type but did form about 30% fewer nodules than the wild type. In contrast, the PS-accumulating mutant, MAV01, initiated nodule formation much later than the wild type and formed 90% fewer nodules than the wild type. The few nodules formed by MAV01 seemed to be almost devoid of bacteria and were unable to fix nitrogen. Leaves of alfalfa plants inoculated with the mutant MAV01 were yellowish, indicating that the plants were starved for nitrogen. Therefore, changes in lipid composition, including the accumulation of bacterial PS, prevent the establishment of a nitrogen-fixing root nodule symbiosis.	2008 Oct	Vences-Guzmán, Miguel Angel; Vences-Guzmán, MA; Vences-Guzmán; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	J Bacteriol
19017108	Transcriptional regulation and signaling in phosphorus starvation: what about legumes?	The availability of soil phosphorus (P), an essential element, is one of the most important requirements for plant growth and crop production. The morphological and physiological adaptations evolved by plants to cope with P starvation have been well characterized. Several P deficiency plant responses are regulated at the transcriptional level. Microarray analysis has generated valuable information on global gene expression in Arabidopsis thaliana grown under P-stress. Despite the identification of P responsive genes, little is known about the regulation of gene expression changes. Four transcription factors, PHR1, WRKY75, ZAT6 and BHLH32, involved in P starvation signaling have been characterized in Arabidopsis, and signaling pathways are deciphered. This review analyzes the current knowledge of transcriptional regulation of P starvation responses in Arabidopsis vis-à-vis legumes such as lupine, common bean and Medicago truncatula. The knowledge on regulatory and signaling mechanisms involved in P acquisition and use in legumes will be useful for improvement of these crops, which account for a large proportion of the world's crop production, providing good nutritional quality feed and food.	2008 Oct	Valdés-López, Oswaldo; Valdés-López, O; Valdés-López; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	J Integr Plant Biol
18638408	Enzymatic, immunological and phylogenetic characterization of Brucella suis urease.	The sequenced genomes of the Brucella spp. have two urease operons, ure-1 and ure-2, but there is evidence that only one is responsible for encoding an active urease. The present work describes the purification and the enzymatic and phylogenomic characterization of urease from Brucella suis strain 1330. Additionally, the urease reactivity of sera from patients diagnosed with brucellosis was examined.	2008 Jul	Contreras-Rodriguez, Araceli; Contreras-Rodriguez, A; Contreras-Rodriguez; Quiroz-Limon, Jose; Quiroz-Limon, J; Quiroz-Limon; Martins, Ana M; Martins, AM; Martins; Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta; Avila-Calderon, Eric; Avila-Calderon, E; Avila-Calderon; Sriranganathan, Nammalwar; Sriranganathan, N; Sriranganathan; Boyle, Stephen M; Boyle, SM; Boyle; Lopez-Merino, Ahide; Lopez-Merino, A; Lopez-Merino	BMC Microbiol
18613977	Immunity related genes in dipterans share common enrichment of AT-rich motifs in their 5' regulatory regions that are potentially involved in nucleosome formation.	Understanding the transcriptional regulation mechanisms in response to environmental challenges is of fundamental importance in biology. Transcription factors associated to response elements and the chromatin structure had proven to play important roles in gene expression regulation. We have analyzed promoter regions of dipteran genes induced in response to immune challenge, in search for particular sequence patterns involved in their transcriptional regulation.	2008 Jul	Hernandez-Romano, Jesus; Hernandez-Romano, J; Hernandez-Romano; Carlos-Rivera, Francisco J; Carlos-Rivera, FJ; Carlos-Rivera; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Lamadrid-Figueroa, Hector; Lamadrid-Figueroa, H; Lamadrid-Figueroa; Valverde-Garduño, Veronica; Valverde-Garduño, V; Valverde-Garduño; Rodriguez, Mario H; Rodriguez, MH; Rodriguez; Martinez-Barnetche, Jesus; Martinez-Barnetche, J; Martinez-Barnetche	BMC Genomics
18596979	A common genomic framework for a diverse assembly of plasmids in the symbiotic nitrogen fixing bacteria.	This work centres on the genomic comparisons of two closely-related nitrogen-fixing symbiotic bacteria, Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar viciae 3841 and Rhizobium etli CFN42. These strains maintain a stable genomic core that is also common to other rhizobia species plus a very variable and significant accessory component. The chromosomes are highly syntenic, whereas plasmids are related by fewer syntenic blocks and have mosaic structures. The pairs of plasmids p42f-pRL12, p42e-pRL11 and p42b-pRL9 as well large parts of p42c with pRL10 are shown to be similar, whereas the symbiotic plasmids (p42d and pRL10) are structurally unrelated and seem to follow distinct evolutionary paths. Even though purifying selection is acting on the whole genome, the accessory component is evolving more rapidly. This component is constituted largely for proteins for transport of diverse metabolites and elements of external origin. The present analysis allows us to conclude that a heterogeneous and quickly diversifying group of plasmids co-exists in a common genomic framework.	2008 Jul	Crossman, Lisa C; Crossman, LC; Crossman; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; McAnnula, Craig; McAnnula, C; McAnnula; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Vernikos, Georgios S; Vernikos, GS; Vernikos; Acosta, José L; Acosta, JL; Acosta; Ghazoui, Zara F; Ghazoui, ZF; Ghazoui; Hernández-González, Ismael; Hernández-González, I; Hernández-González; Meakin, Georgina; Meakin, G; Meakin; Walker, Alan W; Walker, AW; Walker; Hynes, Michael F; Hynes, MF; Hynes; Young, J Peter W; Young, JP; Young; Downie, J Allan; Downie, JA; Downie; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Johnston, Andrew W B; Johnston, AW; Johnston; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; Parkhill, Julian; Parkhill, J; Parkhill; González, Víctor; González, V; González	PLoS One
18533836	Improvement of drought tolerance and grain yield in common bean by overexpressing trehalose-6-phosphate synthase in rhizobia.	Improving stress tolerance and yield in crops are major goals for agriculture. Here, we show a new strategy to increase drought tolerance and yield in legumes by overexpressing trehalose-6-phosphate synthase in the symbiotic bacterium Rhizobium etli. Phaseolus vulgaris (common beans) plants inoculated with R. etli overexpressing trehalose-6-phosphate synthase gene had more nodules with increased nitrogenase activity and higher biomass compared with plants inoculated with wild-type R. etli. In contrast, plants inoculated with an R. etli mutant in trehalose-6-phosphate synthase gene had fewer nodules and less nitrogenase activity and biomass. Three-week-old plants subjected to drought stress fully recovered whereas plants inoculated with a wild-type or mutant strain wilted and died. The yield of bean plants inoculated with R. etli overexpressing trehalose-6-phosphate synthase gene and grown with constant irrigation increased more than 50%. Macroarray analysis of 7,200 expressed sequence tags from nodules of plants inoculated with the strain overexpressing trehalose-6-phosphate synthase gene revealed upregulation of genes involved in stress tolerance and carbon and nitrogen metabolism, suggesting a signaling mechanism for trehalose. Thus, trehalose metabolism in rhizobia is key for signaling plant growth, yield, and adaptation to abiotic stress, and its manipulation has a major agronomical impact on leguminous plants.	2008 Jul	Suárez, Ramón; Suárez, R; Suárez; Wong, Arnoldo; Wong, A; Wong; Ramírez, Mario; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Barraza, Aarón; Barraza, A; Barraza; Orozco, María Del Carmen; Orozco, Mdel C; Orozco; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Lara, Miguel; Lara, M; Lara; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Iturriaga, Gabriel; Iturriaga, G; Iturriaga	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
18502926	Multichromosomal genome structure and confirmation of diazotrophy in novel plant-associated Burkholderia species.	Pulsed-field gel electrophoresis and 16S rRNA hybridization experiments showed that multichromosome genome structures and very large genome sizes (6.46 to 8.73 Mb) are prevalent in novel plant-associated Burkholderia species. (15)N(2) isotope dilution assays revealed unambiguous diazotrophy in these novel species. nifH gene sequence analysis, often used to determine phylogenetic relatedness among diazotrophs, showed tight clusters of Burkholderia species, which were clearly distinct from those of other diazotrophs.	2008 Jul	Martínez-Aguilar, Lourdes; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar; Díaz, Rafael; Díaz, R; Díaz; Peña-Cabriales, Juan José; Peña-Cabriales, JJ; Peña-Cabriales; Estrada-de Los Santos, Paulina; Estrada-de Los Santos, P; Estrada-de Los Santos; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	Appl Environ Microbiol
18599833	The new group of non-pathogenic plant-associated nitrogen-fixing Burkholderia spp. shares a conserved quorum-sensing system, which is tightly regulated by the RsaL repressor.	A novel group of nitrogen-fixing plant-associated Burkholderia species has emerged in the last few years. The purpose of this investigation was to determine if these species possess an N-acylhomoserine lactone (AHL) quorum-sensing (QS) cell-cell signalling system, and whether it is important for nitrogen fixation and other phenotypic features in Burkholderia kururiensis. It was determined that B. kururiensis, and other members of this Burkholderia species cluster, contain at least one highly conserved system, designated BraI/R, which produces and responds to N-dodecanoyl-3-oxo-homoserine lactone (C12-3-oxo-AHL). The BraI/R AHL QS is not involved in the regulation of nitrogen fixation or in several other important phenotypes, indicating that it may not be a global regulatory system. The BraI/R system is similar to LasI/R of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and, as with lasI/R, there is a repressor gene, rsaL, between the braI/R genes. B. kururiensis normally synthesizes very low levels of C12-3-oxo-AHL, but the situation dramatically changes when RsaL is missing since an rsaL mutant displays a marked increase in AHL production. This unique stringent regulation indicates that RsaL could be an on/off switch for AHL QS in B. kururiensis and the ability to produce very high levels of AHL also questions the role of this molecule in the novel group of Burkholderia. The presence of a well-conserved and distinct AHL QS system among all the diazotrophic Burkholderia is a further indication that they are closely related, and that this system might play an important and conserved role in the lifestyle of this novel group of bacterial species.	2008 Jul	Suárez-Moreno, Zulma Rocí; Suárez-Moreno, ZR; Suárez-Moreno; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Venturi, Vittorio; Venturi, V; Venturi	Microbiology (Reading)
18433868	The repABC plasmid family.	repABC plasmids are widely distributed among alpha-proteobacteria. They are especially common in Rhizobiales. Some strains of this bacterial order can contain multiple repABC replicons indicating that this plasmid family includes several incompatibility groups. The replication and stable maintenance of these replicons depend on the presence of a repABC operon. The repABC operons sequenced to date share some general characteristics. All of them contain at least three protein-encoding genes: repA, repB and repC. The first two genes encode proteins involved in plasmid segregation, whereas repC encodes a protein crucial for replication. The origin of replication maps within the repC gene. In contrast, the centromere-like sequence (parS) can be located at various positions in the operon. In this review we will summarize current knowledge about this plasmid family, with special emphasis on their structural diversity and their complex genetic regulation. Finally, we will examine some ideas about their evolutionary origin and trends.	2008 Jul	Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Cervantes-Rivera, Ramón; Cervantes-Rivera, R; Cervantes-Rivera; Gutiérrez-Ríos, Rosa María; Gutiérrez-Ríos, RM; Gutiérrez-Ríos	Plasmid
18466918	The role of DNA-binding specificity in the evolution of bacterial regulatory networks.	Understanding the mechanisms by which transcriptional regulatory networks (TRNs) change through evolution is a fundamental problem.Here, we analyze this question using data from Escherichia coli and Bacillus subtilis, and find that paralogy relationships are insufficient to explain the global or local role observed for transcription factors (TFs) within regulatory networks. Our results provide a picture in which DNA-binding specificity, a molecular property that can be measured in different ways, is a predictor of the role of transcription factors. In particular, we observe that global regulators consistently display low levels of binding specificity, while displaying comparatively higher expression values in microarray experiments. In addition, we find a strong negative correlation between binding specificity and the number of co-regulators that help coordinate genetic expression on a genomic scale. A close look at several orthologous TFs,including FNR, a regulator found to be global in E. coli and local in B.subtilis, confirms the diagnostic value of specificity in order to understand their regulatory function, and highlights the importance of evaluating the metabolic and ecological relevance of effectors as another variable in the evolutionary equation of regulatory networks. Finally, a general model is presented that integrates some evolutionary forces and molecular properties,aiming to explain how regulons grow and shrink, as bacteria tune their regulation to increase adaptation.	2008 Jun	Lozada-Chávez, Irma; Lozada-Chávez, I; Lozada-Chávez; Angarica, Vladimir Espinosa; Angarica, VE; Angarica; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Contreras-Moreira, Bruno; Contreras-Moreira, B; Contreras-Moreira	J Mol Biol
18424522	Transcriptional interference and repression modulate the conjugative ability of the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium etli.	Bacteria of the order Rhizobiales are able to establish nitrogen-fixing symbioses with legumes. Commonly, genes for symbiosis are harbored on large symbiotic plasmids. Although the transfer of symbiotic plasmids is commonly detected in nature, there are few experimentally characterized examples. In Rhizobium etli, the product of rctA inhibits the conjugation of the symbiotic plasmid by reducing the transcription of the virB operon. rctA is transcribed divergently from this operon, and its product is predicted to have a DNA binding domain. In the present study, using DNase I footprinting and binding assays, we demonstrated the specific binding of RctA to the virB operon promoter. A 9-bp motif in the spacer region of this promoter (the rctA binding motif box) and the presence of a functional -10 region were critical elements for RctA binding. Transcriptional fusion analyses revealed that the elimination of either element provoked a relief of RctA-mediated repression. These data support a model in which RctA inhibits the access of the RNA polymerase to the virB promoter. Interestingly, rctA expression levels were modulated by transcriptional interference from transcripts emanating from the virB promoter. This phenomenon adds another level of regulation for this system, thus revealing a novel mechanism of plasmid transfer regulation in the Rhizobiales.	2008 Jun	Sepúlveda, Edgardo; Sepúlveda, E; Sepúlveda; Pérez-Mendoza, Daniel; Pérez-Mendoza, D; Pérez-Mendoza; Ramírez-Romero, Miguel A; Ramírez-Romero, MA; Ramírez-Romero; Soto, María J; Soto, MJ; Soto; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Sanjuán, Juan; Sanjuán, J; Sanjuán; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero	J Bacteriol
18312393	Mutations in lipopolysaccharide biosynthetic genes impair maize rhizosphere and root colonization of Rhizobium tropici CIAT899.	Three transposon mutants of Rhizobium tropici CIAT899 affected in lipopolysaccharide (LPS) biosynthesis were characterized and their maize rhizosphere and endophytic root colonization abilities were evaluated. The disrupted genes coded for the following putative products: the ATPase component of an O antigen ABC-2 type transporter (wzt), a nucleotide-sugar dehydratase (lpsbeta2) and a bifunctional enzyme producing GDP-mannose (noeJ). Electrophoretic analysis of affinity purified LPS showed that all mutants lacked the smooth LPS bands indicating an O antigen minus phenotype. In the noeJ mutant, the rough LPS band migrated faster than the parental band, suggesting a truncated LPS core. When inoculated individually, the wzt and noeJ mutants colonize the rhizosphere and root to a lower extent than the parental strain while no differences were observed between the lpsbeta2 mutant and the parental strain. All mutants were impaired in competitive rhizosphere and root colonization. Pleiotropic effects of the mutations on known colonization traits such as motility and growth rate were observed, but they were not sufficient to explain the colonization behaviours. It was found that the LPS mutants were sensitive to the maize antimicrobial 6-methoxy-2-benzoxazolinone (MBOA). Only the combined effects of altered growth rate and susceptibility to maize antimicrobials could account for all the observed colonization phenotypes. The results suggest an involvement of the LPS in protecting R. tropici against maize defence response during rhizosphere and root colonization.	2008 May	Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Rosenblueth, Monica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Luyten, Ellen; Luyten, E; Luyten; Vanderleyden, Jos; Vanderleyden, J; Vanderleyden; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Environ Microbiol
18180252	Analysis of copy number variation in the rhesus macaque genome identifies candidate loci for evolutionary and human disease studies.	Copy number variants (CNVs) are heritable gains and losses of genomic DNA in normal individuals. While copy number variation is widely studied in humans, our knowledge of CNVs in other mammalian species is more limited. We have designed a custom array-based comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) platform with 385 000 oligonucleotide probes based on the reference genome sequence of the rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta), the most widely studied non-human primate in biomedical research. We used this platform to identify 123 CNVs among 10 unrelated macaque individuals, with 24% of the CNVs observed in multiple individuals. We found that segmental duplications were significantly enriched at macaque CNV loci. We also observed significant overlap between rhesus macaque and human CNVs, suggesting that certain genomic regions are prone to recurrent CNV formation and instability, even across a total of approximately 50 million years of primate evolution ( approximately 25 million years in each lineage). Furthermore, for eight of the CNVs that were observed in both humans and macaques, previous human studies have reported a relationship between copy number and gene expression or disease susceptibility. Therefore, the rhesus macaque offers an intriguing, non-human primate outbred model organism with which hypotheses concerning the specific functions of phenotypically relevant human CNVs can be tested.	2008 Apr	Lee, Arthur S; Lee, AS; Lee; Gutiérrez-Arcelus, María; Gutiérrez-Arcelus, M; Gutiérrez-Arcelus; Perry, George H; Perry, GH; Perry; Vallender, Eric J; Vallender, EJ; Vallender; Johnson, Welkin E; Johnson, WE; Johnson; Miller, Gregory M; Miller, GM; Miller; Korbel, Jan O; Korbel, JO; Korbel; Lee, Charles; Lee, C; Lee	Hum Mol Genet
17985353	An efficient conformational sampling method for homology modeling.	The structural refinement of protein models is a challenging problem in protein structure prediction (Moult et al., Proteins 2003;53(Suppl 6):334-339). Most attempts to refine comparative models lead to degradation rather than improvement in model quality, so most current comparative modeling procedures omit the refinement step. However, it has been shown that even in the absence of alignment errors and using optimal templates, methods based on a single template have intrinsic limitations, and that refinement is needed to improve model accuracy. It is thought that failure of current methods originates on one hand from the inaccuracy of the effective free energy functions adopted, which do not represent properly the energetic balance in the native state, and on the other hand from the difficulty to sample the high dimensional and rugged free energy landscape of protein folding, in the search for the global minimum. Here, we address this second issue. We define the evolutionary and vibrational armonics subspace (EVA), a reduced sampling subspace that consists of a combination of evolutionarily favored directions, defined by the principal components of the structural variation within a homologous family, plus topologically favored directions, derived from the low frequency normal modes of the vibrational dynamics, up to 50 dimensions. This subspace is accurate enough so that the cores of most proteins can be represented within 1 A accuracy, and reduced enough so that Replica Exchange Monte Carlo (Hukushima and Nemoto, J Phys Soc Jpn 1996;65:1604-1608; Hukushima et al., Int J Mod Phys C: Phys Comput 1996;7:337-344; Mitsutake et al., J Chem Phys 2003;118:6664-6675; Mitsutake et al., J Chem Phys 2003;118:6676-6688) (REMC) can be applied. REMC is one of the best sampling methods currently available, but its applicability is restricted to spaces of small dimensionality. We show that the combination of the EVA subspace and REMC can essentially solve the optimization problem for backbone atoms in the reduced sampling subspace, even for rather rugged free energy landscapes. Applications and limitations of this methodology are finally discussed.	2008 Apr	Han, Rongsheng; Han, R; Han; Leo-Macias, Alejandra; Leo-Macias, A; Leo-Macias; Zerbino, Daniel; Zerbino, D; Zerbino; Bastolla, Ugo; Bastolla, U; Bastolla; Contreras-Moreira, Bruno; Contreras-Moreira, B; Contreras-Moreira; Ortiz, Angel R; Ortiz, AR; Ortiz	Proteins
18398195	Bacillus coahuilensis sp. nov., a moderately halophilic species from a desiccation lagoon in the Cuatro Ciénegas Valley in Coahuila, Mexico.	A moderately halophilic, Gram-positive and rod-shaped bacterium, strain m4-4T, was isolated from a Chihuahuan desert lagoon in Cuatro Ciénegas, Coahuila, Mexico. Strain m4-4T was found to grow optimally at 30-37 degrees C, pH 7.0-8.0 and 5 % NaCl and to tolerate from 0.5 % to 10 % NaCl. It was shown to be aerobic. The genomic DNA G+C content was about 37 mol%. Strain m4-4T exhibited minimal or no growth on most sugars tested. Its major cellular fatty acids were C14 : 0, C16 : 0 and C18 : 1. Based on phylogenetic analysis of 16S rRNA and recA gene sequences, we observed that the closest relatives of the isolate are moderately halophilic Bacillus species, with 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity ranging from 96.6 to 97.4 % (Bacillus marisflavi, Bacillus aquimaris and Bacillus vietnamensis). Additionally, using genomic data it was determined that the type strain contains a total of nine rRNA operons with three slightly different sequences. On the basis of phenotypic and molecular properties, strain m4-4T represents a novel species within the genus Bacillus, for which the name Bacillus coahuilensis sp. nov. is proposed, with the type strain m4-4T (=NRRL B-41737T =CECT 7197T).	2008 Apr	Cerritos, René; Cerritos, R; Cerritos; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Eguiarte, Luis E; Eguiarte, LE; Eguiarte; Herrera-Estrella, Luis; Herrera-Estrella, L; Herrera-Estrella; Alcaraz-Peraza, Luis D; Alcaraz-Peraza, LD; Alcaraz-Peraza; Arvizu-Gómez, Jackeline L; Arvizu-Gómez, JL; Arvizu-Gómez; Olmedo, Gabriela; Olmedo, G; Olmedo; Ramirez, Enrique; Ramirez, E; Ramirez; Siefert, Janet L; Siefert, JL; Siefert; Souza, Valeria; Souza, V; Souza	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
18407964	Evidence for sugar signalling in the regulation of asparagine synthetase gene expressed in Phaseolus vulgaris roots and nodules.	A cDNA clone, designated as PvNAS2, encoding asparagine amidotransferase (asparagine synthetase) was isolated from nodule tissue of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris cv. Negro Jamapa). Southern blot analysis indicated that asparagine synthetase in bean is encoded by a small gene family. Northern analysis of RNAs from various plant organs demonstrated that PvNAS2 is highly expressed in roots, followed by nodules in which it is mainly induced during the early days of nitrogen fixation. Investigations with the PvNAS2 promoter gusA fusion revealed that the expression of PvNAS2 in roots is confined to vascular bundles and meristematic tissues, while in root nodules its expression is solely localized to vascular traces and outer cortical cells encompassing the central nitrogen-fixing zone, but never detected in either infected or non-infected cells located in the central region of the nodule. PvNAS2 is down-regulated when carbon availability is reduced in nodules, and the addition of sugars to the plants, mainly glucose, boosted its induction, leading to the increased asparagine production. In contrast to PvNAS2 expression and the concomitant asparagine synthesis, glucose supplement resulted in the reduction of ureide content in nodules. Studies with glucose analogues as well as hexokinase inhibitors suggested a role for hexokinase in the sugar-sensing mechanism that regulates PvNAS2 expression in roots. In light of the above results, it is proposed that, in bean, low carbon availability in nodules prompts the down-regulation of the asparagine synthetase enzyme and concomitantly asparagine production. Thereby a favourable environment is created for the efficient transfer of the amido group of glutamine for the synthesis of purines, and then ureide generation.	2008	Silvente, Sonia; Silvente, S; Silvente; Reddy, Pallavolu M; Reddy, PM; Reddy; Khandual, Sanghamitra; Khandual, S; Khandual; Blanco, Lourdes; Blanco, L; Blanco; Alvarado-Affantranger, Xochitl; Alvarado-Affantranger, X; Alvarado-Affantranger; Sanchez, Federico; Sanchez, F; Sanchez; Lara-Flores, Miguel; Lara-Flores, M; Lara-Flores	J Exp Bot
18182018	Molecular cloning, characterization and regulation of two different NADH-glutamate synthase cDNAs in bean nodules.	NADH-dependent glutamate synthase (NADH-GOGAT) is a key enzyme in primary ammonia assimilation in Phaseolus vulgaris nodules. Two different types of cDNA clones of PvNADH-GOGAT were isolated from the nodule cDNA libraries. The full-length cDNA clones of PvNADH-GOGAT-I (7.4 kb) and PvNADH-GOGAT-II (7.0 kb), which displayed an 83% homology between them, were isolated using cDNA library screening, 'cDNA library walking' and RT-PCR amplification. Southern analysis employing specific 5' cDNA probes derived from PvNADH-GOGAT-I and PvNADH-GOGAT-II indicated the existence of a single copy of each gene in the bean genome. Both these proteins contain approximately 100 amino acid sequences theoretically addressing each isoenzyme to different subcellular compartments. RT-PCR analysis indicated that PvNADH-GOGAT-II expression is higher than PvNADH-GOGAT-I during nodule development. Expression analysis by RT-PCR also revealed that both of these genes are differentially regulated by sucrose. On the other hand, the expression of PvNADH-GOGAT-I, but not PvNADH-GOGAT-II, was inhibited with nitrogen compounds. In situ hybridization and promoter expression analyses demonstrated that the NADH-GOGAT-I and -II genes are differentially expressed in bean root and nodule tissues. In silico analyses of the NADH-GOGAT promoters revealed the presence of potential cis elements in them that could mediate differential tissue-specific, and sugar and amino acid responsive expression of these genes.	2008 Apr	Blanco, Lourdes; Blanco, L; Blanco; Reddy, Pallavolu M; Reddy, PM; Reddy; Silvente, Sonia; Silvente, S; Silvente; Bucciarelli, Bruna; Bucciarelli, B; Bucciarelli; Khandual, Sanghamitra; Khandual, S; Khandual; Alvarado-Affantranger, Xochitl; Alvarado-Affantranger, X; Alvarado-Affantranger; Sánchez, Federico; Sánchez, F; Sánchez; Miller, Susan; Miller, S; Miller; Vance, Carroll; Vance, C; Vance; Lara-Flores, Miguel; Lara-Flores, M; Lara-Flores	Plant Cell Environ
18310436	Requirement of a plasmid-encoded catalase for survival of Rhizobium etli CFN42 in a polyphenol-rich environment.	Nitrogen-fixing bacteria collectively called rhizobia are adapted to live in polyphenol-rich environments. The mechanisms that allow these bacteria to overcome toxic concentrations of plant polyphenols have not been clearly elucidated. We used a crude extract of polyphenols released from the seed coat of the black bean to simulate a polyphenol-rich environment and analyze the response of the bean-nodulating strain Rhizobium etli CFN42. Our results showed that the viability of the wild type as well as that of derivative strains cured of plasmids p42a, p42b, p42c, and p42d or lacking 200 kb of plasmid p42e was not affected in this environment. In contrast, survival of the mutant lacking plasmid p42f was severely diminished. Complementation analysis revealed that the katG gene located on this plasmid, encoding the only catalase present in this bacterium, restored full resistance to testa polyphenols. Our results indicate that oxidation of polyphenols due to interaction with bacterial cells results in the production of a high quantity of H(2)O(2), whose removal by the katG-encoded catalase plays a key role for cell survival in a polyphenol-rich environment.	2008 Apr	García-de Los Santos, Alejandro; García-de Los Santos, A; García-de Los Santos; López, Erika; López, E; López; Cubillas, Ciro A; Cubillas, CA; Cubillas; Noel, K Dale; Noel, KD; Noel; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero	Appl Environ Microbiol
18366643	Impact of Transcription Units rearrangement on the evolution of the regulatory network of gamma-proteobacteria.	In the past years, several studies begun to unravel the structure, dynamical properties, and evolution of transcriptional regulatory networks. However, even those comparative studies that focus on a group of closely related organisms are limited by the rather scarce knowledge on regulatory interactions outside a few model organisms, such as E. coli among the prokaryotes.	2008 Mar	González Pérez, Abel D; González Pérez, AD; González Pérez; González González, Evelyn; González González, E; González González; Espinosa Angarica, Vladimir; Espinosa Angarica, V; Espinosa Angarica; Vasconcelos, Ana Tereza R; Vasconcelos, AT; Vasconcelos; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	BMC Genomics
18156266	The LysR-type transcriptional regulator LeuO controls expression of several genes in Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi.	LeuO is a LysR-type transcriptional regulator that has been implicated in the bacterial stringent response and in the virulence of Salmonella. A genomic analysis with Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi revealed that LeuO is a positive regulator of OmpS1, OmpS2, AssT, and STY3070. In contrast, LeuO down-regulated the expression of OmpX, Tpx, and STY1978. Transcriptional fusions supported the positive and negative LeuO regulation. Expression of ompS1, assT, and STY3070 was induced in an hns mutant, consistent with the notion that H-NS represses these genes; transcriptional activity was lower for tpx and STY1978 in an hns background, suggesting that this global regulatory protein has a positive effect. In contrast, ompS2 and ompX expression appeared to be H-NS independent. LeuO specifically bound to the 5' intergenic regions of ompS2, assT, STY3070, ompX, and tpx, while it was not observed to bind to the promoter region of STY1978, suggesting that LeuO regulates in direct and indirect ways. In this work, a novel set of genes belonging to the LeuO regulon are described; interestingly, these genes are involved in a variety of biological processes, suggesting that LeuO is a global regulator in Salmonella.	2008 Mar	Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Gallego-Hernández, A L; Gallego-Hernández, AL; Gallego-Hernández; Encarnación, S; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Fernández-Mora, M; Fernández-Mora, M; Fernández-Mora; Martínez-Batallar, A G; Martínez-Batallar, AG; Martínez-Batallar; Salgado, H; Salgado, H; Salgado; Oropeza, R; Oropeza, R; Oropeza; Calva, E; Calva, E; Calva	J Bacteriol
18065619	Bacteriophage prevalence in the genus Azospirillum and analysis of the first genome sequence of an Azospirillum brasilense integrative phage.	The prevalence of bacteriophages was investigated in 24 strains of four species of plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria belonging to the genus Azospirillum. Upon induction by mitomycin C, the release of phage particles was observed in 11 strains from three species. Transmission electron microscopy revealed two distinct sizes of particles, depending on the identity of the Azospirillum species, typical of the Siphoviridae family. Pulsed-field gel electrophoresis and hybridization experiments carried out on phage-encapsidated DNAs revealed that all phages isolated from A. lipoferum and A. doebereinerae strains had a size of about 10 kb whereas all phages isolated from A. brasilense strains displayed genome sizes ranging from 62 to 65 kb. Strong DNA hybridizing signals were shown for most phages hosted by the same species whereas no homology was found between phages harbored by different species. Moreover, the complete sequence of the A. brasilense Cd bacteriophage (phiAb-Cd) genome was determined as a double-stranded DNA circular molecule of 62,337 pb that encodes 95 predicted proteins. Only 14 of the predicted proteins could be assigned functions, some of which were involved in DNA processing, phage morphogenesis, and bacterial lysis. In addition, the phiAb-Cd complete genome was mapped as a prophage on a 570-kb replicon of strain A. brasilense Cd, and a region of 27.3 kb of phiAb-Cd was found to be duplicated on the 130-kb pRhico plasmid previously sequenced from A. brasilense Sp7, the parental strain of A. brasilense Cd.	2008 Feb	Boyer, Mickaël; Boyer, M; Boyer; Haurat, Jacqueline; Haurat, J; Haurat; Samain, Sylvie; Samain, S; Samain; Segurens, Béatrice; Segurens, B; Segurens; Gavory, Frédérick; Gavory, F; Gavory; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Mavingui, Patrick; Mavingui, P; Mavingui; Rohr, René; Rohr, R; Rohr; Bally, René; Bally, R; Bally; Wisniewski-Dyé, Florence; Wisniewski-Dyé, F; Wisniewski-Dyé	Appl Environ Microbiol
17671982	Operons and the effect of genome redundancy in deciphering functional relationships using phylogenetic profiles.	Phylogenetic profiles (PPs) are one of the most promising methods for predicting functional relationships by genomic context. The idea behind PPs is that if the products of two genes have a functional interdependence, the genes should both be either present or absent across genomes. One of the main problems with PPs is that evolutionarily close organisms tend to share a higher number of genes resulting in the overscoring of PP-relatedness. The proper measure of the overscoring effect of evolutionary redundancy requires examples of both functionally related genes (positive gold standards) and functionally unrelated genes (negative gold standards). Since experimentally verified functional interactions are only available for a few model organisms, there is a need for an alternative to gold standards. The presence of operons (polycistronic transcription units formed of functionally related genes) in prokaryotic genomes offers such an alternative. Genes in operons are located next to each other in the same DNA strand, and thus their presence should result in a higher proportion of predicted functional interactions among adjacent genes in the same strand than among adjacent genes in opposite strands. Under the preceding principle, we present a confidence value (CV) designed for evaluating predictions of functional interactions obtained using PPs. We first show that the CV corresponds to a positive predictive value calculated using experimentally known operons and further validate operon predictions based on this CV in other organisms using available microarray data. Then, we use a fixed CV of 0.90 as a reference to compare PP predictions obtained using different nonredundant genome datasets filtered at varying thresholds of genomic similarity. Our results demonstrate that nonredundant genome datasets increase the number of high-quality predictions by an average of 20%. Confidence values as those presented here should help compare other strategies and scoring systems to use phylogenetic profiles and other genomic context methods for predicting functional interactions.	2008 Feb	Moreno-Hagelsieb, Gabriel; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb; Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga	Proteins
17979985	Phosphatidylcholine synthesis is required for optimal function of Legionella pneumophila virulence determinants.	The function of phosphatidylcholine (PC) in the bacterial cell envelope remains cryptic. We show here that productive interaction of the respiratory pathogen Legionella pneumophila with host cells requires bacterial PC. Synthesis of the lipid in L. pneumophila was shown to occur via either phospholipid N-methyltransferase (PmtA) or phosphatidylcholine synthase (PcsA), but the latter pathway was demonstrated to be of predominant importance. Loss of PC from the cell envelope caused lowered yields of L. pneumophila within macrophages as well as loss of high multiplicity cytotoxicity, while mutants defective in PC synthesis could be complemented either by reintroduction of PcsA or by overproduction of PmtA. The lowered yields and reduced cytotoxicity in mutants with defective PC biosynthesis were due to three related defects. First, there was a poorly functioning Dot/Icm apparatus, which delivers substrates required for intracellular growth into the cytosol of infected cells. Second, there was reduced bacterial binding to macrophages, possibly due to loss of PC or a PC derivative on the bacterium that is recognized by the host cell. Finally, strains lacking PC had low steady-state levels of flagellin protein, a deficit that had been previously associated with the phenotypes of lowered cytotoxicity and poor cellular adhesion.	2008 Feb	Conover, Gloria M; Conover, GM; Conover; Martinez-Morales, Fernando; Martinez-Morales, F; Martinez-Morales; Heidtman, Matthew I; Heidtman, MI; Heidtman; Luo, Zhao-Qing; Luo, ZQ; Luo; Tang, May; Tang, M; Tang; Chen, Cui; Chen, C; Chen; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Isberg, Ralph R; Isberg, RR; Isberg	Cell Microbiol
18177306	Thiamine limitation determines the transition from aerobic to fermentative-like metabolism in Rhizobium etli CE3.	Both thiamine and biotin when added to minimal medium subcultures reversed the fermentative-like metabolism exhibited by Rhizobium etli CE3. Thiamine auxotrophs lacking thiCOGE genes were used to investigate the role of thiamine in this medium. A thiC1169::miniTn5lacZ1 thiamine auxotroph subjected to the above subcultures resulted in growth arrest, reduced pyruvate-dehydrogenase activity, and a smaller amount of poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate compared with the CE3 strain. Moreover, thiC and thiEb genes were overexpressed as result of thiamine limitation. The absence of classical thi genes suggests that thiamine is synthesized with low efficiency by an alternative pathway. Low levels of thiamine cause the CE3 strain to exhibit a fermentative-like metabolism.	2008 Feb	Taboada, Hermenegildo; Taboada, H; Taboada; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Vargas, María del Carmen; Vargas, Mdel C; Vargas; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Miranda-Ríos, Juan; Miranda-Ríos, J; Miranda-Ríos; Soberón, Mario; Soberón, M; Soberón; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	FEMS Microbiol Lett
17993534	Multiple phospholipid N-methyltransferases with distinct substrate specificities are encoded in Bradyrhizobium japonicum.	Phosphatidylcholine (PC) is the major phospholipid in eukaryotic membranes. In contrast, it is found in only a few prokaryotes including members of the family Rhizobiaceae. In these bacteria, PC is required for pathogenic and symbiotic plant-microbe interactions, as shown for Agrobacterium tumefaciens and Bradyrhizobium japonicum. At least two different phospholipid N-methyltransferases (PmtA and PmtX) have been postulated to convert phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) to PC in B. japonicum by three consecutive methylation reactions. However, apart from the known PmtA enzyme, we identified and characterized three additional pmt genes (pmtX1, pmtX3, and pmtX4), which can be functionally expressed in Escherichia coli, showing different substrate specificities. B. japonicum expressed only two of these pmt genes (pmtA and pmtX1) under all conditions tested. PmtA predominantly converts PE to monomethyl PE, whereas PmtX1 carries out both subsequent methylation steps. B. japonicum is the first bacterium known to use two functionally different Pmts. It also expresses a PC synthase, which produces PC via condensation of CDP-diacylglycerol and choline. Our study shows that PC biosynthesis in bacteria can be much more complex than previously anticipated.	2008 Jan	Hacker, Stephanie; Hacker, S; Hacker; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Aktas, Meriyem; Aktas, M; Aktas; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Narberhaus, Franz; Narberhaus, F; Narberhaus	J Bacteriol
18158297	RegulonDB (version 6.0): gene regulation model of Escherichia coli K-12 beyond transcription, active (experimental) annotated promoters and Textpresso navigation.	RegulonDB (http://regulondb.ccg.unam.mx/) is the primary reference database offering curated knowledge of the transcriptional regulatory network of Escherichia coli K12, currently the best-known electronically encoded database of the genetic regulatory network of any free-living organism. This paper summarizes the improvements, new biology and new features available in version 6.0. Curation of original literature is, from now on, up to date for every new release. All the objects are supported by their corresponding evidences, now classified as strong or weak. Transcription factors are classified by origin of their effectors and by gene ontology class. We have now computational predictions for sigma(54) and five different promoter types of the sigma(70) family, as well as their corresponding -10 and -35 boxes. In addition to those curated from the literature, we added about 300 experimentally mapped promoters coming from our own high-throughput mapping efforts. RegulonDB v.6.0 now expands beyond transcription initiation, including RNA regulatory elements, specifically riboswitches, attenuators and small RNAs, with their known associated targets. The data can be accessed through overviews of correlations about gene regulation. RegulonDB associated original literature, together with more than 4000 curation notes, can now be searched with the Textpresso text mining engine.	2008 Jan	Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Jiménez-Jacinto, Verónica; Jiménez-Jacinto, V; Jiménez-Jacinto; Peralta-Gil, Martín; Peralta-Gil, M; Peralta-Gil; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Peñaloza-Spinola, Mónica I; Peñaloza-Spinola, MI; Peñaloza-Spinola; Contreras-Moreira, Bruno; Contreras-Moreira, B; Contreras-Moreira; Segura-Salazar, Juan; Segura-Salazar, J; Segura-Salazar; Muñiz-Rascado, Luis; Muñiz-Rascado, L; Muñiz-Rascado; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Bonavides-Martínez, César; Bonavides-Martínez, C; Bonavides-Martínez; Abreu-Goodger, Cei; Abreu-Goodger, C; Abreu-Goodger; Rodríguez-Penagos, Carlos; Rodríguez-Penagos, C; Rodríguez-Penagos; Miranda-Ríos, Juan; Miranda-Ríos, J; Miranda-Ríos; Morett, Enrique; Morett, E; Morett; Merino, Enrique; Merino, E; Merino; Huerta, Araceli M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Treviño-Quintanilla, Luis; Treviño-Quintanilla, L; Treviño-Quintanilla; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
19918115	Role of proteomics in the study of nutrition.	With the advent of nutrigenomics, a more mechanistic view of the variable host responses to nutrients is beginning to emerge. Proteomics is central to nutrigenomics since studies on the effect of nutrients on the proteome have the potential to explain, at the molecular level, many of the physiological changes associated with nutritional stimuli. Proteomics aims at the resolution, identification and quantitation of complex protein mixtures, discovery of interactions of proteins with other molecules, as well as their cellular localization and their role in metabolism. In this article, recent studies on proteomic effects of two vitamins, biotin and folic acid, will be considered as examples of this novel approach to nutriology.	2008	Velázquez-Arellano, Antonio; Velázquez-Arellano, A; Velázquez-Arellano; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación	J Nutrigenet Nutrigenomics
17940092	Multidimensional annotation of the Escherichia coli K-12 genome.	The annotation of the Escherichia coli K-12 genome in the EcoCyc database is one of the most accurate, complete and multidimensional genome annotations. Of the 4460 E. coli genes, EcoCyc assigns biochemical functions to 76%, and 66% of all genes had their functions determined experimentally. EcoCyc assigns E. coli genes to Gene Ontology and to MultiFun. Seventy-five percent of gene products contain reviews authored by the EcoCyc project that summarize the experimental literature about the gene product. EcoCyc information was derived from 15 000 publications. The database contains extensive descriptions of E. coli cellular networks, describing its metabolic, transport and transcriptional regulatory processes. A comparison to genome annotations for other model organisms shows that the E. coli genome contains the most experimentally determined gene functions in both relative and absolute terms: 2941 (66%) for E. coli, 2319 (37%) for Saccharomyces cerevisiae, 1816 (5%) for Arabidopsis thaliana, 1456 (4%) for Mus musculus and 614 (4%) for Drosophila melanogaster. Database queries to EcoCyc survey the global properties of E. coli cellular networks and illuminate the extent of information gaps for E. coli, such as dead-end metabolites. EcoCyc provides a genome browser with novel properties, and a novel interactive display of transcriptional regulatory networks.	2007	Karp, Peter D; Karp, PD; Karp; Keseler, Ingrid M; Keseler, IM; Keseler; Shearer, Alexander; Shearer, A; Shearer; Latendresse, Mario; Latendresse, M; Latendresse; Krummenacker, Markus; Krummenacker, M; Krummenacker; Paley, Suzanne M; Paley, SM; Paley; Paulsen, Ian; Paulsen, I; Paulsen; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Peralta-Gil, Martin; Peralta-Gil, M; Peralta-Gil; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Peñaloza-Spínola, Mónica I; Peñaloza-Spínola, MI; Peñaloza-Spínola; Bonavides-Martinez, César; Bonavides-Martinez, C; Bonavides-Martinez; Ingraham, John; Ingraham, J; Ingraham	Nucleic Acids Res
17996425	Structure and evolution of gene regulatory networks in microbial genomes.	With the availability of genome sequences for hundreds of microbial genomes, it has become possible to address several questions from a comparative perspective to understand the structure and function of regulatory systems, at least in model organisms. Recent studies have focused on topological properties and the evolution of regulatory networks and their components. Our understanding of natural networks is paving the way to embedding synthetic regulatory systems into organisms, allowing us to expand the natural diversity of living systems to an extent we had never before anticipated.	2007 Dec	Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Res Microbiol
17933780	Coordination logic of the sensing machinery in the transcriptional regulatory network of Escherichia coli.	The active and inactive state of transcription factors in growing cells is usually directed by allosteric physicochemical signals or metabolites, which are in turn either produced in the cell or obtained from the environment by the activity of the products of effector genes. To understand the regulatory dynamics and to improve our knowledge about how transcription factors (TFs) respond to endogenous and exogenous signals in the bacterial model, Escherichia coli, we previously proposed to classify TFs into external, internal and hybrid sensing classes depending on the source of their allosteric or equivalent metabolite. Here we analyze how a cell uses its topological structures in the context of sensing machinery and show that, while feed forward loops (FFLs) tightly integrate internal and external sensing TFs connecting TFs from different layers of the hierarchical transcriptional regulatory network (TRN), bifan motifs frequently connect TFs belonging to the same sensing class and could act as a bridge between TFs originating from the same level in the hierarchy. We observe that modules identified in the regulatory network of E. coli are heterogeneous in sensing context with a clear combination of internal and external sensing categories depending on the physiological role played by the module. We also note that propensity of two-component response regulators increases at promoters, as the number of TFs regulating a target operon increases. Finally we show that evolutionary families of TFs do not show a tendency to preserve their sensing abilities. Our results provide a detailed panorama of the topological structures of E. coli TRN and the way TFs they compose off, sense their surroundings by coordinating responses.	2007	Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Martínez-Antonio, Agustino; Martínez-Antonio, A; Martínez-Antonio; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
18176701	SHV-type extended-spectrum beta-lactamase (ESBL) are encoded in related plasmids from enterobacteria clinical isolates from Mexico.	In this work we report the molecular characterization of beta-lactam antibiotics resistance conferred by genes contained in plasmids from enterobacteria producing extended-spectrum beta-lactamases (ESBL).	2007 Nov-Dec	Garza-Ramos, Ulises; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Silva-Sánchez, Jesús; Silva-Sánchez, J; Silva-Sánchez	Salud Publica Mex
17977153	The lipid lysyl-phosphatidylglycerol is present in membranes of Rhizobium tropici CIAT899 and confers increased resistance to polymyxin B under acidic growth conditions.	Lysyl-phosphatidylglycerol (LPG) is a well-known membrane lipid in several gram-positive bacteria but is almost unheard of in gram-negative bacteria. In Staphylococcus aureus, the gene product of mprF is responsible for LPG formation. Low pH-inducible genes, termed IpiA, have been identified in the gram-negative alpha-proteobacteria Rhizobium tropici and Sinorhizobium medicae in screens for acid-sensitive mutants and they encode homologs of MprF. An analysis of the sequenced bacterial genomes reveals that genes coding for homologs of MprF from S. aureus are present in several classes of organisms throughout the bacterial kingdom. In this study, we show that the expression of lpiA from R. tropici in the heterologous hosts Escherichia coli and Sinorhizobium meliloti causes formation of LPG. A wild-type strain of R. tropici forms LPG (about 1% of the total lipids) when the cells are grown in minimal medium at pH 4.5 but not when grown in minimal medium at neutral pH or in complex tryptone yeast (TY) medium at either pH. LPG biosynthesis does not occur when lpiA is deleted and is restored upon complementation of lpiA-deficient mutants with a functional copy of the lpiA gene. When grown in the low-pH medium, lpiA-deficient rhizobial mutants are over four times more susceptible to the cationic peptide polymyxin B than the wild type.	2007 Nov	Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Galindo-Lagunas, Kanaan A; Galindo-Lagunas, KA; Galindo-Lagunas; Guan, Ziqiang; Guan, Z; Guan; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Robinson, Sally; Robinson, S; Robinson; Thomas-Oates, Jane; Thomas-Oates, J; Thomas-Oates; Raetz, Christian R H; Raetz, CR; Raetz; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
17922569	Metabolic reconstruction and modeling of nitrogen fixation in Rhizobium etli.	Rhizobiaceas are bacteria that fix nitrogen during symbiosis with plants. This symbiotic relationship is crucial for the nitrogen cycle, and understanding symbiotic mechanisms is a scientific challenge with direct applications in agronomy and plant development. Rhizobium etli is a bacteria which provides legumes with ammonia (among other chemical compounds), thereby stimulating plant growth. A genome-scale approach, integrating the biochemical information available for R. etli, constitutes an important step toward understanding the symbiotic relationship and its possible improvement. In this work we present a genome-scale metabolic reconstruction (iOR363) for R. etli CFN42, which includes 387 metabolic and transport reactions across 26 metabolic pathways. This model was used to analyze the physiological capabilities of R. etli during stages of nitrogen fixation. To study the physiological capacities in silico, an objective function was formulated to simulate symbiotic nitrogen fixation. Flux balance analysis (FBA) was performed, and the predicted active metabolic pathways agreed qualitatively with experimental observations. In addition, predictions for the effects of gene deletions during nitrogen fixation in Rhizobia in silico also agreed with reported experimental data. Overall, we present some evidence supporting that FBA of the reconstructed metabolic network for R. etli provides results that are in agreement with physiological observations. Thus, as for other organisms, the reconstructed genome-scale metabolic network provides an important framework which allows us to compare model predictions with experimental measurements and eventually generate hypotheses on ways to improve nitrogen fixation.	2007 Oct	Resendis-Antonio, Osbaldo; Resendis-Antonio, O; Resendis-Antonio; Reed, Jennifer L; Reed, JL; Reed; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Palsson, Bernhard Ø; Palsson, BØ; Palsson	PLoS Comput Biol
17918626	Novel reiterated Fnr-type proteins control the production of the symbiotic terminal oxidase cbb3 in Rhizobium etli CFN42.	Symbiotic nitrogen-fixing bacteria express a terminal oxidase with a high oxygen affinity, the cbb3-type oxidase encoded by the fixNOQP operon. Previously, we have shown that, in Rhizobium etli CFN42, the repeatedfixNOQP operons (fixNOQPd and fixNOQPf) have a differential role in nitrogen fixation. Only the fixNOQPd operon is required for the establishment of an effective symbiosis; microaerobic induction of this operon is under the control of at least three transcriptional regulators, FixKf, FnrNd, and FnrNchr, belonging to the Crp/Fnr family. In this work, we describe two novel Crp/Fnr-type transcriptional regulators (StoRd and StoRf, symbiotic terminal oxidase regulators) that play differential roles in the control of key genes for nitrogen fixation. Mutations either in stoRd or stoRf enhance the microaerobic expression of both fixNOQP reiterations, increasing also the synthesis of the cbb3-type oxidase in nodules. Despite their structural similarity, a differential role of these genes was also revealed, since a mutation in stoRd but not in stoRf enhanced both the expression of fixKf and the nitrogen-fixing capacity of R. etli CFN42.	2007 Oct	Granados-Baeza, Manuel J; Granados-Baeza, MJ; Granados-Baeza; Gómez-Hernández, Nicolás; Gómez-Hernández, N; Gómez-Hernández; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Delgado, María J; Delgado, MJ; Delgado; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
17601787	DNA diversification in two Sinorhizobium species.	The comparative analysis of genomic characteristics and single-nucleotide polymorphism patterns from large fragments borne on different replicons of Sinorhizobium spp. genomes clearly demonstrate that DNA recombination among closely related bacteria is a major event in the diversification of this genome, especially in pSymA, resulting in mosaic structure.	2007 Sep	Guo, Xianwu; Guo, X; Guo; Flores, Margarita; Flores, M; Flores; Morales, Lucía; Morales, L; Morales; García, Delfino; García, D; García; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Palacios, Rafael; Palacios, R; Palacios; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila	J Bacteriol
17683642	Automatic reconstruction of a bacterial regulatory network using Natural Language Processing.	Manual curation of biological databases, an expensive and labor-intensive process, is essential for high quality integrated data. In this paper we report the implementation of a state-of-the-art Natural Language Processing system that creates computer-readable networks of regulatory interactions directly from different collections of abstracts and full-text papers. Our major aim is to understand how automatic annotation using Text-Mining techniques can complement manual curation of biological databases. We implemented a rule-based system to generate networks from different sets of documents dealing with regulation in Escherichia coli K-12.	2007 Aug	Rodríguez-Penagos, Carlos; Rodríguez-Penagos, C; Rodríguez-Penagos; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	BMC Bioinformatics
17526694	Functional characterization of the Sinorhizobium meliloti acetate metabolism genes aceA, SMc00767, and glcB.	The genes encoding malate synthase (glcB) and isocitrate lyase (aceA) and a 240-bp open reading frame (SMc00767) located downstream of aceA were isolated and functionally characterized in Sinorhizobium meliloti. Independent and double interposon mutants of each gene were constructed, and the corresponding phenotypes were analyzed. aceA mutants failed to grow on acetate, and mutants deficient in SMc00767 were also affected in acetate utilization. In contrast, mutants deficient in glcB grew on acetate similar to wild-type strain Rm5000. Complementation experiments showed that aceA and SMc00767 gene constructs were able to restore the growth on acetate in the corresponding single mutants. aceA-glcB, aceA-SMc00767, and glcB-SMc00767 double knockouts were also unable to grow on acetate, but this ability was recovered when the wild-type aceA-glcB or aceA-SMc00767 loci were introduced into the double mutants. These data confirm the functional role of aceA and SMc00767 and show that glcB, in the absence of SMc00767, is required for acetate metabolism. Isocitrate lyase and malate synthase activities were measured in strain Rm5000, the mutant derivatives, and complemented strains. aceA and glcB were able to complement the enzymatic activity lacking in the corresponding single mutants. The enzymatic activities also showed that SMc00767 represses the activity of isocitrate lyase in cells grown on acetate. Gene fusions confirmed the repressor role of SMc00767, which regulates aceA expression at the transcriptional level. Comparison of the transcriptional profiles of the SMc00767 mutant and wild-type strain Rm5000 showed that SMc00767 represses the expression of a moderate number of open reading frames, including aceA; thus, we propose that SMc00767 is a novel repressor involved in acetate metabolism in S. meliloti. Genetic and functional analyses indicated that aceA and SMc00767 constitute a functional two-gene operon, which is conserved in other alpha-proteobacteria. Alfalfa plants infected with the aceA and glcB mutants were not impaired in nodulation or nitrogen fixation, and so the glyoxylate cycle is not required in the Rhizobium-legume symbiosis.	2007 Aug	Ramírez-Trujillo, J A; Ramírez-Trujillo, JA; Ramírez-Trujillo; Encarnación, S; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Salazar, E; Salazar, E; Salazar; de los Santos, A García; de los Santos, AG; de los Santos; Dunn, M F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Emerich, D W; Emerich, DW; Emerich; Calva, E; Calva, E; Calva; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas	J Bacteriol
17601817	The tomato rhizosphere, an environment rich in nitrogen-fixing Burkholderia species with capabilities of interest for agriculture and bioremediation.	Burkholderia strains are promising candidates for biotechnological applications. Unfortunately, most of these strains belong to species of the Burkholderia cepacia complex (Bcc) involved in human infections, hampering potential applications. Novel diazotrophic Burkholderia species, phylogenetically distant from the Bcc species, have been discovered recently, but their environmental distribution and relevant features for agro-biotechnological applications are little known. In this work, the occurrence of N2-fixing Burkholderia species in the rhizospheres and rhizoplanes of tomato plants field grown in Mexico was assessed. The results revealed a high level of diversity of diazotrophic Burkholderia species, including B. unamae, B. xenovorans, B. tropica, and two other unknown species, one of them phylogenetically closely related to B. kururiensis. These N2-fixing Burkholderia species exhibited activities involved in bioremediation, plant growth promotion, or biological control in vitro. Remarkably, B. unamae and B. kururiensis grew with aromatic compounds (phenol and benzene) as carbon sources, and the presence of aromatic oxygenase genes was confirmed in both species. The rhizospheric and endophyte nature of B. unamae and its ability to degrade aromatic compounds suggest that it could be used in rhizoremediation and for improvement of phytoremediation. B. kururiensis and other Burkholderia sp. strains grew with toluene. B. unamae and B. xenovorans exhibited ACC (1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid) deaminase activity, and the occurrence of acdS genes encoding ACC deaminase was confirmed. Mineral phosphate solubilization through organic acid production appears to be the mechanism used by most diazotrophic Burkholderia species, but in B. tropica, there presumably exists an additional unknown mechanism. Most of the diazotrophic Burkholderia species produced hydroxamate-type siderophores. Certainly, the N2-fixing Burkholderia species associated with plants have great potential for agro-biotechnological applications.	2007 Aug	Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Onofre-Lemus, Janette; Onofre-Lemus, J; Onofre-Lemus; Estrada-de Los Santos, Paulina; Estrada-de Los Santos, P; Estrada-de Los Santos; Martínez-Aguilar, Lourdes; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar	Appl Environ Microbiol
17693711	Tyrosinase from Rhizobium etli is involved in nodulation efficiency and symbiosis-associated stress resistance.	Tyrosinase (EC 1.14.18.1) is a monophenol oxidase responsible for the synthesis of the black pigment known as melanin. The tyrosinase gene (melA) is plasmid-encoded in many rhizobial species. In Rhizobium etli CFN42, the genetic location of melA in the symbiotic plasmid (p42d) and its RpoN-NifA regulation suggest an involvement in symbiosis. In this work, we analyzed the symbiotic phenotype of a streptomycin-resistant derivative of CFN42 (CE3), a melA mutant (SP2) and a complemented strain (SP66), demonstrating that melA inactivation reduced nodule formation rate and diminished total nodule number by 27% when compared to the CE3 strain. The nitrogen fixation capacity of the mutant strain was not affected. Also, in vitro assays were performed where the resistance of CE3, SP2 and SP66 strains to H(2)O(2) was evaluated; the melA mutant strain was consistently less resistant to peroxide. In another series of experiments, Escherichia coli W3110 strain expressing R. etli melA displayed enhanced resistance to p-hydroxybenzoic, vanillinic and syringic acids, which are phenolic compounds frequently found in the soil. Our results are the first to demonstrate a specific role for tyrosinase in R. etli: this enzyme is required during early symbiosis, apparently providing resistance against reactive oxygen species and phenolic compounds generated as part of the plant protective responses.	2007	Piñero, Silvia; Piñero, S; Piñero; Rivera, Javier; Rivera, J; Rivera; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Cevallos, Miguel Angel; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Martínez, Alfredo; Martínez, A; Martínez; Bolívar, Francisco; Bolívar, F; Bolívar; Gosset, Guillermo; Gosset, G; Gosset	J Mol Microbiol Biotechnol
17617412	Conservation of transcriptional sensing systems in prokaryotes: a perspective from Escherichia coli.	The activity of transcription factors is usually governed by allosteric physicochemical signals or metabolites, which are in turn produced in the cell or obtained from the environment by the activity of the products of effector genes. Previously, we identified a collection of more than 110 transcription factors and their corresponding effector genes in Escherichia coli K-12. Here, we introduce the notion of "triferog", which relates to the identification of orthologous transcription factors and effector genes across genomes and show that transcriptional sensing systems known in E. coli are poorly conserved beyond Salmonella. We also find that enzymes that act as effector genes for the production of endogenous effector metabolites are more conserved than their corresponding effector genes encoding for transport and two-component systems for sensing exogenous signals. Finally, we observe that on an evolutionary scale enzymes are more conserved than their respective TFs, suggesting a homogenous cellular metabolism across genomes and the conservation of transcriptional control of critical cellular processes like DNA replication by a common endogenous signal. We hypothesize that extensive variation in the domain architecture of TFs and changes in endogenous conditions at large phylogenetic distances could be the major contributing factors for the observed differential conservation of TFs and their corresponding effector genes encoding for enzymes, causing variations in transcriptional responses across organisms.	2007 Jul	Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Martínez-Antonio, Agustino; Martínez-Antonio, A; Martínez-Antonio; Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga	FEBS Lett
17559662	Identification of regulatory network topological units coordinating the genome-wide transcriptional response to glucose in Escherichia coli.	Glucose is the preferred carbon and energy source for Escherichia coli. A complex regulatory network coordinates gene expression, transport and enzyme activities in response to the presence of this sugar. To determine the extent of the cellular response to glucose, we applied an approach combining global transcriptome and regulatory network analyses.	2007 Jun	Gutierrez-Ríos, Rosa María; Gutierrez-Ríos, RM; Gutierrez-Ríos; Freyre-Gonzalez, Julio A; Freyre-Gonzalez, JA; Freyre-Gonzalez; Resendis, Osbaldo; Resendis, O; Resendis; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Saier, Milton; Saier, M; Saier; Gosset, Guillermo; Gosset, G; Gosset	BMC Microbiol
17623083	Rapid evolutionary change of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L) plastome, and the genomic diversification of legume chloroplasts.	Fabaceae (legumes) is one of the largest families of flowering plants, and some members are important crops. In contrast to what we know about their great diversity or economic importance, our knowledge at the genomic level of chloroplast genomes (cpDNAs or plastomes) for these crops is limited.	2007 Jul	Guo, Xianwu; Guo, X; Guo; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Fernández-Vázquez, José Luís; Fernández-Vázquez, JL; Fernández-Vázquez; Santamaría, Rosa Isela; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Arellano, Jesús; Arellano, J; Arellano; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila	BMC Genomics
17459960	TFmodeller: comparative modelling of protein-DNA complexes.	Interactions between proteins and DNA molecules lie at the core of the fundamental cellular processes such as transcriptional regulation. Some of these interactions have been experimentally described at atomic scale, but the molecular details of many others remain to be discovered. TFmodeller exploits the current knowledge about protein-DNA interfaces contained in the Protein Data Bank and uses it to model similar interfaces related by homology. Results are emailed to the user and include an evolutionary contact matrix, a schematic representation of the putative binding interface and atomic coordinates of the modelled complex. The library of complexes used by TFmodeller is updated on a weekly basis and is available for download.	2007 Jul	Contreras-Moreira, Bruno; Contreras-Moreira, B; Contreras-Moreira; Branger, Pierre-Alain; Branger, PA; Branger; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Bioinformatics
17597531	Definition of the zebrafish genome using flow cytometry and cytogenetic mapping.	The zebrafish (Danio rerio) is an important vertebrate model organism system for biomedical research. The syntenic conservation between the zebrafish and human genome allows one to investigate the function of human genes using the zebrafish model. To facilitate analysis of the zebrafish genome, genetic maps have been constructed and sequence annotation of a reference zebrafish genome is ongoing. However, the duplicative nature of teleost genomes, including the zebrafish, complicates accurate assembly and annotation of a representative genome sequence. Cytogenetic approaches provide "anchors" that can be integrated with accumulating genomic data.	2007 Jun	Freeman, Jennifer L; Freeman, JL; Freeman; Adeniyi, Adeola; Adeniyi, A; Adeniyi; Banerjee, Ruby; Banerjee, R; Banerjee; Dallaire, Stephanie; Dallaire, S; Dallaire; Maguire, Sean F; Maguire, SF; Maguire; Chi, Jianxiang; Chi, J; Chi; Ng, Bee Ling; Ng, BL; Ng; Zepeda, Cinthya; Zepeda, C; Zepeda; Scott, Carol E; Scott, CE; Scott; Humphray, Sean; Humphray, S; Humphray; Rogers, Jane; Rogers, J; Rogers; Zhou, Yi; Zhou, Y; Zhou; Zon, Leonard I; Zon, LI; Zon; Carter, Nigel P; Carter, NP; Carter; Yang, Fengtang; Yang, F; Yang; Lee, Charles; Lee, C; Lee	BMC Genomics
17293074	Ensifer mexicanus sp. nov. a new species nodulating Acacia angustissima (Mill.) Kuntze in Mexico.	A new lineage of Ensifer nodulating the American legume Acacia angustissima in the tropical forest of Chiapas and Morelos, Mexico is described. Bacteria were identified as Ensifer with ssb or nolR specific primers. Phylogenetic analysis with partial sequences of the five chromosomal genes gyrA, nolR, recA, rpoB and rrs revealed that this new lineage is related to African Ensifer terangae. The results of total DNA-DNA hybridization and selected phenotypic tests among the A. angustissima strains and E. terangae indicated that they belong to different species. The phylogeny with the symbiotic nifH gene also separates this group as a different clade but with close affinities to bacteria belonging to the genus Ensifer isolated from American hosts. ITTG R7(T) (=CFN ER1001, HAMBI 2910, CIP 109033, ATCC BAA-1312, DSM18446) is the type strain of a new species for which the name Ensifer mexicanus sp. nov. is proposed.	2007 Jun	Lloret, Lourdes; Lloret, L; Lloret; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Rincón, Reiner; Rincón, R; Rincón; Martínez-Romero, Julio; Martínez-Romero, J; Martínez-Romero; Rogel-Hernández, Marco Antonio; Rogel-Hernández, MA; Rogel-Hernández; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
17449651	Phosphorus stress in common bean: root transcript and metabolic responses.	Phosphorus (P) is an essential element for plant growth. Crop production of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris), the most important legume for human consumption, is often limited by low P in the soil. Functional genomics were used to investigate global gene expression and metabolic responses of bean plants grown under P-deficient and P-sufficient conditions. P-deficient plants showed enhanced root to shoot ratio accompanied by reduced leaf area and net photosynthesis rates. Transcript profiling was performed through hybridization of nylon filter arrays spotted with cDNAs of 2,212 unigenes from a P deficiency root cDNA library. A total of 126 genes, representing different functional categories, showed significant differential expression in response to P: 62% of these were induced in P-deficient roots. A set of 372 bean transcription factor (TF) genes, coding for proteins with Inter-Pro domains characteristic or diagnostic for TF, were identified from The Institute of Genomic Research/Dana Farber Cancer Institute Common Bean Gene Index. Using real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis, 17 TF genes were differentially expressed in P-deficient roots; four TF genes, including MYB TFs, were induced. Nonbiased metabolite profiling was used to assess the degree to which changes in gene expression in P-deficient roots affect overall metabolism. Stress-related metabolites such as polyols accumulated in P-deficient roots as well as sugars, which are known to be essential for P stress gene induction. Candidate genes have been identified that may contribute to root adaptation to P deficiency and be useful for improvement of common bean.	2007 Jun	Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Ramírez, Mario; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Valdés-López, Oswaldo; Valdés-López, O; Valdés-López; Tesfaye, Mesfin; Tesfaye, M; Tesfaye; Graham, Michelle A; Graham, MA; Graham; Czechowski, Tomasz; Czechowski, T; Czechowski; Schlereth, Armin; Schlereth, A; Schlereth; Wandrey, Maren; Wandrey, M; Wandrey; Erban, Alexander; Erban, A; Erban; Cheung, Foo; Cheung, F; Cheung; Wu, Hank C; Wu, HC; Wu; Lara, Miguel; Lara, M; Lara; Town, Christopher D; Town, CD; Town; Kopka, Joachim; Kopka, J; Kopka; Udvardi, Michael K; Udvardi, MK; Udvardi; Vance, Carroll P; Vance, CP; Vance	Plant Physiol
17386032	Population genetic structure of Sinorhizobium meliloti and S. medicae isolated from nodules of Medicago spp. in Mexico.	We studied the genetic structure of 176 bacterial isolates from nodules of Medicago sativa, M. lupulina and M. polymorpha in fifteen sites distributed in three localities in Mexico. The strains were characterized by multilocus enzyme electrophoresis, plasmid profiles, PCR restriction fragment length polymorphism of 16S rRNA genes and of the intergenic spacer between 16S and 23S rRNA genes, and partial sequences of glnII, recA and nodB. Most of the strains were classified as Sinorhizobium meliloti, and a high genetic diversity was recorded. Six strains were classified as Sinorhizobium medicae, with no genetic variation. Phylogenetic and population genetic analyses revealed evidence of frequent recombination and migration within species.	2007 Jun	Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva; Kan, Feng Ling; Kan, FL; Kan; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	FEMS Microbiol Ecol
17136545	Regeneration of roots from callus reveals stability of the developmental program for determinate root growth in Sonoran Desert Cactaceae.	In some Sonoran Desert Cactaceae the primary root has a determinate root growth: the cells of the root apical meristem undergo only a few cell division cycles and then differentiate. The determinate growth of primary roots in Cactaceae was found in plants cultivated under various growth conditions, and could not be reverted by any treatment tested. The mechanisms involved in root meristem maintenance and determinate root growth in plants remain poorly understood. In this study, we have shown that roots regenerated from the callus of two Cactaceae species, Stenocereus gummosus and Ferocactus peninsulae, have a determinate growth pattern, similar to that of the primary root. To demonstrate this, a protocol for root regeneration from callus was established. The determinate growth pattern of roots regenerated from callus suggests that the program of root development is very stable in these species. These findings will permit future analysis of the role of certain Cactaceae genes in the determinate pattern of root growth via the regeneration of transgenic roots from transformed calli.	2007 May	Shishkova, Svetlana; Shishkova, S; Shishkova; García-Mendoza, Edith; García-Mendoza, E; García-Mendoza; Castillo-Díaz, Vicente; Castillo-Díaz, V; Castillo-Díaz; Moreno, Norma E; Moreno, NE; Moreno; Arellano, Jesús; Arellano, J; Arellano; Dubrovsky, Joseph G; Dubrovsky, JG; Dubrovsky	Plant Cell Rep
17472633	Selection of nitrogen-fixing deficient Burkholderia vietnamiensis strains by cystic fibrosis patients: involvement of nif gene deletions and auxotrophic mutations.	Burkholderia vietnamiensis is the third most prevalent species of the Burkholderia cepacia complex (Bcc) found in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. Its ability at fixing nitrogen makes it one of the main Bcc species showing strong filiations with environmental reservoirs. In this study, 83% (29 over 35) of the B. vietnamiensis CF isolates and 100% of the environmental ones (over 29) were found expressing the dinitrogenase complex (encoded by the nif cluster) which is essential in N(2) fixation. Among the deficient strains, two were found growing with ammonium chloride suggesting that they were defective in N(2) fixation, and four with amino acids supplements suggesting that they were harbouring auxotrophic mutations. To get insights about the genetic events that led to the emergence of the N(2)-fixing defective strains, a genetic analysis of B. vietnamiensis nitrogen-fixing property was undertaken. A 40-kb-long nif cluster and nif regulatory genes were identified within the B. vietnamiensis strain G4 genome sequence, and analysed. Transposon mutagenesis and nifH genetic marker exchanges showed the nif cluster and several other genes like gltB (encoding a subunit of the glutamate synthase) to play a key role in B. vietnamiensis ability at growing in nitrogen-free media. nif cluster DNA probings of restricted genomic DNA blots showed a full deletion of the nif cluster for one of the N(2)-fixing defective strain while the other one showed a genetic organization similar to the one of the G4 strain. For 17% of B. vietnamiensis clinical strains, CF lungs appeared to have favoured the selection of mutations or deletions leading to N(2)-fixing deficiencies.	2007 May	Menard, Aymeric; Menard, A; Menard; Monnez, Claire; Monnez, C; Monnez; Estrada de Los Santos, Paulina; Estrada de Los Santos, P; Estrada de Los Santos; Segonds, Christine; Segonds, C; Segonds; Caballero-Mellado, Jesus; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Lipuma, John J; Lipuma, JJ; Lipuma; Chabanon, Gerard; Chabanon, G; Chabanon; Cournoyer, Benoit; Cournoyer, B; Cournoyer	Environ Microbiol
17321548	Internal versus external effector and transcription factor gene pairs differ in their relative chromosomal position in Escherichia coli.	Transcription factors (TFs) play an important role in the genetic regulation of transcription in response to internal and external cellular stimuli. However, little is known about their functional and dynamic aspects on a large scale, even in a well-studied bacterium like Escherichia coli. To understand the regulatory dynamics and to improve our knowledge about how TFs respond to endogenous and exogenous signals in this simple bacterium model, we previously proposed that TFs can be classified into three classes, depending on how they sense their allosteric or equivalent metabolite: external class, internal class, and hybrid sensing class. Classification of these groups was done without considering the relative chromosomal positions of the TFs and their corresponding effector genes. Here, we analyze the genome organization of the genetic components of these sensing systems, using the classification described earlier. We report the chromosomal proximity of transcription factors and their effector genes to sense periplasmic signals or transported metabolites (i.e. transcriptional sensing systems from the external class) in contrast to the components for sensing internally synthesized metabolites, which tend to be distant on the chromosome. We strengthen our finding that external sensing genetic machinery behaves like chromosomal modules of regulation to respond rapidly to variations in external conditions through co-expression of their genetic components, which is corroborated with microarray data for E. coli. Furthermore, we show several lines of evidence supporting the need for the coordinated activity of external sensing systems in contrast to that of internal sensing machinery, which can explain their close chromosomal organization. The observed functional correlation between the chromosomal organization and the genetic machinery for environmental sensing should contribute to our understanding of the logical functioning and evolution of the transcriptional regulatory networks in bacteria.	2007 Apr	Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Martínez-Antonio, Agustino; Martínez-Antonio, A; Martínez-Antonio	J Mol Biol
17389356	Recurrent DNA inversion rearrangements in the human genome.	Several lines of evidence suggest that reiterated sequences in the human genome are targets for nonallelic homologous recombination (NAHR), which facilitates genomic rearrangements. We have used a PCR-based approach to identify breakpoint regions of rearranged structures in the human genome. In particular, we have identified intrachromosomal identical repeats that are located in reverse orientation, which may lead to chromosomal inversions. A bioinformatic workflow pathway to select appropriate regions for analysis was developed. Three such regions overlapping with known human genes, located on chromosomes 3, 15, and 19, were analyzed. The relative proportion of wild-type to rearranged structures was determined in DNA samples from blood obtained from different, unrelated individuals. The results obtained indicate that recurrent genomic rearrangements occur at relatively high frequency in somatic cells. Interestingly, the rearrangements studied were significantly more abundant in adults than in newborn individuals, suggesting that such DNA rearrangements might start to appear during embryogenesis or fetal life and continue to accumulate after birth. The relevance of our results in regard to human genomic variation is discussed.	2007 Apr	Flores, Margarita; Flores, M; Flores; Morales, Lucía; Morales, L; Morales; Gonzaga-Jauregui, Claudia; Gonzaga-Jauregui, C; Gonzaga-Jauregui; Domínguez-Vidaña, Rocío; Domínguez-Vidaña, R; Domínguez-Vidaña; Zepeda, Cinthya; Zepeda, C; Zepeda; Yañez, Omar; Yañez, O; Yañez; Gutiérrez, María; Gutiérrez, M; Gutiérrez; Lemus, Tzitziki; Lemus, T; Lemus; Valle, David; Valle, D; Valle; Avila, Ma Carmen; Avila, MC; Avila; Blanco, Daniel; Blanco, D; Blanco; Medina-Ruiz, Sofía; Medina-Ruiz, S; Medina-Ruiz; Meza, Karla; Meza, K; Meza; Ayala, Erandi; Ayala, E; Ayala; García, Delfino; García, D; García; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Tusie-Luna, Teresa; Tusie-Luna, T; Tusie-Luna; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; Palacios, Rafael; Palacios, R; Palacios	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
17188715	Robustness and evolvability in genetic regulatory networks.	Living organisms are robust to a great variety of genetic changes. Gene regulation networks and metabolic pathways self-organize and reaccommodate to make the organism perform with stability and reliability under many point mutations, gene duplications and gene deletions. At the same time, living organisms are evolvable, which means that these kind of genetic perturbations can eventually make the organism acquire new functions and adapt to new environments. It is still an open problem to determine how robustness and evolvability blend together at the genetic level to produce stable organisms that yet can change and evolve. Here we address this problem by studying the robustness and evolvability of the attractor landscape of genetic regulatory network models under the process of gene duplication followed by divergence. We show that an intrinsic property of this kind of networks is that, after the divergence of the parent and duplicate genes, with a high probability the previous phenotypes, encoded in the attractor landscape of the network, are preserved and new ones might appear. The above is true in a variety of network topologies and even for the case of extreme divergence in which the duplicate gene bears almost no relation with its parent. Our results indicate that networks operating close to the so-called "critical regime" exhibit the maximum robustness and evolvability simultaneously.	2007 Apr	Aldana, Maximino; Aldana, M; Aldana; Balleza, Enrique; Balleza, E; Balleza; Kauffman, Stuart; Kauffman, S; Kauffman; Resendiz, Osbaldo; Resendiz, O; Resendiz	J Theor Biol
17293429	A complete set of flagellar genes acquired by horizontal transfer coexists with the endogenous flagellar system in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Bacteria swim in liquid environments by means of a complex rotating structure known as the flagellum. Approximately 40 proteins are required for the assembly and functionality of this structure. Rhodobacter sphaeroides has two flagellar systems. One of these systems has been shown to be functional and is required for the synthesis of the well-characterized single subpolar flagellum, while the other was found only after the genome sequence of this bacterium was completed. In this work we found that the second flagellar system of R. sphaeroides can be expressed and produces a functional flagellum. In many bacteria with two flagellar systems, one is required for swimming, while the other allows movement in denser environments by producing a large number of flagella over the entire cell surface. In contrast, the second flagellar system of R. sphaeroides produces polar flagella that are required for swimming. Expression of the second set of flagellar genes seems to be positively regulated under anaerobic growth conditions. Phylogenic analysis suggests that the flagellar system that was initially characterized was in fact acquired by horizontal transfer from a gamma-proteobacterium, while the second flagellar system contains the native genes. Interestingly, other alpha-proteobacteria closely related to R. sphaeroides have also acquired a set of flagellar genes similar to the set found in R. sphaeroides, suggesting that a common ancestor received this gene cluster.	2007 Apr	Poggio, Sebastian; Poggio, S; Poggio; Abreu-Goodger, Cei; Abreu-Goodger, C; Abreu-Goodger; Fabela, Salvador; Fabela, S; Fabela; Osorio, Aurora; Osorio, A; Osorio; Dreyfus, Georges; Dreyfus, G; Dreyfus; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Camarena, Laura; Camarena, L; Camarena	J Bacteriol
17233732	Inactivation of the nodH gene in Sinorhizobium sp. BR816 enhances symbiosis with Phaseolus vulgaris L.	Sulfate modification on Rhizobium Nod factor signaling molecules is not a prerequisite for successful symbiosis with the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.). However, many bean-nodulating rhizobia, including the broad host strain Sinorhizobium sp. BR816, produce sulfated Nod factors. Here, we show that the nodH gene, encoding a sulfotransferase, is responsible for the transfer of sulfate to the Nod factor backbone in Sinorhizobium sp. BR816, as was shown for other rhizobia. Interestingly, inactivation of nodH enables inoculated bean plants to fix significantly more nitrogen under different experimental setups. Our studies show that nodH in the wild-type strain is still expressed during the later stages of symbiosis. This is the first report on enhanced nitrogen fixation by blocking Nod factor sulfation.	2007 Jan	Remans, Roseline; Remans, R; Remans; Snoeck, Carla; Snoeck, C; Snoeck; Verreth, Christel; Verreth, C; Verreth; Croonenborghs, Anja; Croonenborghs, A; Croonenborghs; Luyten, Ellen; Luyten, E; Luyten; Ndayizeye, Maxime; Ndayizeye, M; Ndayizeye; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Michiels, Jan; Michiels, J; Michiels; Vanderleyden, Jos; Vanderleyden, J; Vanderleyden	FEMS Microbiol Lett
17088283	Tractor_DB (version 2.0): a database of regulatory interactions in gamma-proteobacterial genomes.	The version 2.0 of Tractor_DB is now accessible at its three international mirrors: www.bioinfo.cu/Tractor_DB, www.tractor.lncc.br and http://www.ccg.unam.mx/tractorDB. This database contains a collection of computationally predicted Transcription Factors' binding sites in gamma-proteobacterial genomes. These data should aid researchers in the design of microarray experiments and the interpretation of their results. They should also facilitate studies of Comparative Genomics of the regulatory networks of this group of organisms. In this paper we describe the main improvements incorporated to the database in the past year and a half which include incorporating information on the regulatory networks of 13-increasing to 30-new gamma-proteobacteria and developing a new computational strategy to complement the putative sites identified by the original weight matrix-based approach. We have also added dynamically generated navigation tabs to the navigation interfaces. Moreover, we developed a new interface that allows users to directly retrieve information on the conservation of regulatory interactions in the 30 genomes included in the database by navigating a map that represents a core of the known Escherichia coli regulatory network.	2007 Jan	Pérez, Abel González; Pérez, AG; Pérez; Angarica, Vladimir Espinosa; Angarica, VE; Angarica; Vasconcelos, Ana Tereza R; Vasconcelos, AT; Vasconcelos; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
16840530	Bacterial regulatory networks are extremely flexible in evolution.	Over millions of years the structure and complexity of the transcriptional regulatory network (TRN) in bacteria has changed, reorganized and enabled them to adapt to almost every environmental niche on earth. In order to understand the plasticity of TRNs in bacteria, we studied the conservation of currently known TRNs of the two model organisms Escherichia coli K12 and Bacillus subtilis across complete genomes including Bacteria, Archaea and Eukarya at three different levels: individual components of the TRN, pairs of interactions and regulons. We found that transcription factors (TFs) evolve much faster than the target genes (TGs) across phyla. We show that global regulators are poorly conserved across the phylogenetic spectrum and hence TFs could be the major players responsible for the plasticity and evolvability of the TRNs. We also found that there is only a small fraction of significantly conserved transcriptional regulatory interactions among different phyla of bacteria and that there is no constraint on the elements of the interaction to co-evolve. Finally our results suggest that majority of the regulons in bacteria are rapidly lost implying a high-order flexibility in the TRNs. We hypothesize that during the divergence of bacteria certain essential cellular processes like the synthesis of arginine, biotine and ribose, transport of amino acids and iron, availability of phosphate, replication process and the SOS response are well conserved in evolution. From our comparative analysis, it is possible to infer that transcriptional regulation is more flexible than the genetic component of the organisms and its complexity and structure plays an important role in the phenotypic adaptation.	2006	Lozada-Chávez, Irma; Lozada-Chávez, I; Lozada-Chávez; Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
17096598	Selection for unequal densities of sigma70 promoter-like signals in different regions of large bacterial genomes.	The evolutionary processes operating in the DNA regions that participate in the regulation of gene expression are poorly understood. In Escherichia coli, we have established a sequence pattern that distinguishes regulatory from nonregulatory regions. The density of promoter-like sequences, that could be recognizable by RNA polymerase and may function as potential promoters, is high within regulatory regions, in contrast to coding regions and regions located between convergently transcribed genes. Moreover, functional promoter sites identified experimentally are often found in the subregions of highest density of promoter-like signals, even when individual sites with higher binding affinity for RNA polymerase exist elsewhere within the regulatory region. In order to see the generality of this pattern, we have analyzed 43 additional genomes belonging to most established bacterial phyla. Differential densities between regulatory and nonregulatory regions are detectable in most of the analyzed genomes, with the exception of those that have evolved toward extreme genome reduction. Thus, presence of this pattern follows that of genes and other genomic features that require weak selection to be effective in order to persist. On this basis, we suggest that the loss of differential densities in the reduced genomes of host-restricted pathogens and symbionts is an outcome of the process of genome degradation resulting from the decreased efficiency of purifying selection in highly structured small populations. This implies that the differential distribution of promoter-like signals between regulatory and nonregulatory regions detected in large bacterial genomes confers a significant, although small, fitness advantage. This study paves the way for further identification of the specific types of selective constraints that affect the organization of regulatory regions and the overall distribution of promoter-like signals through more detailed comparative analyses among closely related bacterial genomes.	2006 Nov	Huerta, Araceli M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Francino, M Pilar; Francino, MP; Francino; Morett, Enrique; Morett, E; Morett; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	PLoS Genet
16847602	Monorhamnolipids and 3-(3-hydroxyalkanoyloxy)alkanoic acids (HAAs) production using Escherichia coli as a heterologous host.	Pseudomonas aeruginosa produces the biosurfactants rhamnolipids and 3-(3-hydroxyalkanoyloxy)alkanoic acids (HAAs). In this study, we report the production of one family of rhamnolipids, specifically the monorhamnolipids, and of HAAs in a recombinant Escherichia coli strain expressing P. aeruginosa rhlAB operon. We found that the availability in E. coli of dTDP-L: -rhamnose, a substrate of RhlB, restricts the production of monorhamnolipids in E. coli. We present evidence showing that HAAs and the fatty acid dimer moiety of rhamnolipids are the product of RhlA enzymatic activity. Furthermore, we found that in the recombinant E. coli, these compounds have the same chain length of the fatty acid dimer moiety as those produced by P. aeruginosa. These data suggest that it is RhlAB specificity, and not the hydroxyfatty acid relative abundance in the bacterium, that determines the profile of the fatty acid moiety of rhamnolipids and HAAs. The rhamnolipids level produced in recombinant E. coli expressing rhlAB is lower than the P. aeruginosa level and much higher than those reported by others in E. coli, showing that this metabolic engineering strategy lead to an increased rhamnolipids production in this heterologous host.	2006 Nov	Cabrera-Valladares, Natividad; Cabrera-Valladares, N; Cabrera-Valladares; Richardson, Anne-Pascale; Richardson, AP; Richardson; Olvera, Clarita; Olvera, C; Olvera; Treviño, Luis Gerardo; Treviño, LG; Treviño; Déziel, Eric; Déziel, E; Déziel; Lépine, François; Lépine, F; Lépine; Soberón-Chávez, Gloria; Soberón-Chávez, G; Soberón-Chávez	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol
16862424	Diverse endophytic bacteria isolated from a leguminous tree Conzattia multiflora grown in Mexico.	Conzattia multiflora is a leguminous tree present only in Mexico and Guatemala. There is no record about its symbiotic or pathogenic microbes. In this study, we found that numerous bacteria with 10(4)-10(6) individuals per gram of fresh epidermis were distributed in the tissue of this plant. All the bacteria isolated from the Conzattia epidermis were Gram-negative, facultative anaerobic rods and formed yellow or colorless colonies. They were identified as endophytes by inoculation tests. Some of the bacteria could significantly promote the growth of Conzattia seedlings. Nine different groups were defined by PCR-based RFLP, which were classified as Pantoea, Erwinia, Salmonella, Enterobacter, Citrobacter and Klebsiella by the phylogenetic analysis of 16S rRNA genes. The existence of plant-borne lineages of Salmonella indicates that the unexplored plants may harbor some unknown microbes.	2006 Oct	Wang, En Tao; Wang, ET; Wang; Tan, Zhi Yuan; Tan, ZY; Tan; Guo, Xian Wu; Guo, XW; Guo; Rodríguez-Duran, Rolando; Rodríguez-Duran, R; Rodríguez-Duran; Boll, Gisela; Boll, G; Boll; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Arch Microbiol
17005985	The Sinorhizobium medicae WSM419 lpiA gene is transcriptionally activated by FsrR and required to enhance survival in lethal acid conditions.	Sinorhizobium medicae WR101 was identified as a mutant of WSM419 that contained a minitransposon-induced transcriptional gusA fusion activated at least 20-fold at pH 5.7. The expression of this fusion in moderately acid conditions was dependent on the calcium concentration; increasing the calcium concentration to enhance cell growth and survival in acid conditions decreased the expression of the fusion. A gene region containing the gusA fusion was sequenced, revealing five S. medicae genes: tcsA, tcrA, fsrR, lpiA and acvB. The gusA reporter in WR101 was fused to lpiA, which encodes a putative transmembrane protein also found in other Alphaproteobacteria such as Sinorhizobium meliloti, Rhizobium tropici and Agrobacterium tumefaciens. As LpiA has partial sequence similarity to the lysyl-phosphatidylglycerol (LPG) synthetase FmtC/MprF from Staphylococcus aureus, membrane lipid compositions of S. medicae strains were analysed. Cells cultured under neutral or acidic growth conditions did not induce any detectable LPG and therefore this lipid cannot be a major constituent of S. medicae membranes. Expression studies in S. medicae localized the acid-activated lpiA promoter within a 372 bp region upstream of the start codon. The acid-activated transcription of lpiA required the fused sensor-regulator product of the fsrR gene, because expression of lpiA was severely reduced in an S. medicae fsrR mutant. S. meliloti strain 1021 does not contain fsrR and acid-activated expression of the lpiA-gusA fusion did not occur in this species. Although acid-activated lpiA transcription was not required for cell growth, its expression was crucial in enhancing the viability of cells subsequently exposed to lethal acid (pH 4.5) conditions.	2006 Oct	Reeve, Wayne G; Reeve, WG; Reeve; Bräu, Lambert; Bräu, L; Bräu; Castelli, Joanne; Castelli, J; Castelli; Garau, Giovanni; Garau, G; Garau; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Dilworth, Michael J; Dilworth, MJ; Dilworth; Glenn, Andrew R; Glenn, AR; Glenn; Howieson, John G; Howieson, JG; Howieson; Tiwari, Ravi P; Tiwari, RP; Tiwari	Microbiology (Reading)
16872758	Growth hormone locus expands and diverges after the separation of New and Old World Monkeys.	While most mammals including the prosimians have a single copy of the growth hormone (GH) gene, anthropoids possess a cluster of GH-related genes. Throughout the evolution of the main anthropoid groups [New World Monkeys (NWM), Old World Monkeys (OWM), and apes], two features stand out of the GH loci. The first is the appearance of chorionic somatommamotropin hormone (CSH) genes within the OWM lineage and the second is the expansion of the loci intergenic regions in the OWM and apes. In relation with this loci expansion, the NWM possess intergenic regions of homogeneous lengths (3.5 kb). In contrast, heterogeneous lengths (6 and 13 kb) have been reported for species of the OWM. At the present, none of the OWM genomic GH loci organizations have been described. Here, we report the genomic organization of the GH locus in the rhesus monkey, this locus has six GH-related genes separated by five intergenic regions. The 5' end gene (GH-1) encodes for the pituitary GH and is followed by CSH-1, GH-2, CSH-2, CSH-3 and CSH-4 genes. The five intergenic regions have heterogeneous lengths and also present more or less the same Alu distribution as the human GH locus. To analyze the events that contributed to the extension of the intergenic regions of the GH locus and the emergence of the regulatory elements, the five GH locus intergenic regions of the spider monkey (NWM) were sequenced. The results of comparing the loci from both species suggest that the long intergenic regions (13 kb) of the rhesus GH locus share a common ancestor with the 3.5 kb intergenic regions of the spider monkey. However, the observed increased length of the former is due to an insertion (approximately 8.7 kb) at their 3' end. Interestingly in this insert, we discovered a DNA element resembling the enhancer of the CSH genes of the human GH locus. On the other hand, we observed that the short intergenic regions (6 kb) increased by a different recombination event.	2006 Sep	González Alvarez, Rafael; González Alvarez, R; González Alvarez; Revol de Mendoza, Agnès; Revol de Mendoza, A; Revol de Mendoza; Esquivel Escobedo, Dolores; Esquivel Escobedo, D; Esquivel Escobedo; Corrales Félix, Gloria; Corrales Félix, G; Corrales Félix; Rodríguez Sánchez, Irám; Rodríguez Sánchez, I; Rodríguez Sánchez; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; Cao, Qing; Cao, Q; Cao; de Jong, Pieter; de Jong, P; de Jong; Fu, Yun-Xin; Fu, YX; Fu; Barrera Saldaña, Hugo A; Barrera Saldaña, HA; Barrera Saldaña	Gene
16903349	Bacterial endophytes and their interactions with hosts.	Recent molecular studies on endophytic bacterial diversity have revealed a large richness of species. Endophytes promote plant growth and yield, suppress pathogens, may help to remove contaminants, solubilize phosphate, or contribute assimilable nitrogen to plants. Some endophytes are seedborne, but others have mechanisms to colonize the plants that are being studied. Bacterial mutants unable to produce secreted proteins are impaired in the colonization process. Plant genes expressed in the presence of endophytes provide clues as to the effects of endophytes in plants. Molecular analysis showed that plant defense responses limit bacterial populations inside plants. Some human pathogens, such as Salmonella spp., have been found as endophytes, and these bacteria are not removed by disinfection procedures that eliminate superficially occurring bacteria. Delivery of endophytes to the environment or agricultural fields should be carefully evaluated to avoid introducing pathogens.	2006 Aug	Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
16902033	Burkholderia silvatlantica sp. nov., a diazotrophic bacterium associated with sugar cane and maize.	In a previous study, nitrogen-fixing isolates were recovered from the rhizosphere of maize and from surface-sterilized leaves of sugar cane cultivated in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. On the basis of 16S rRNA gene sequence similarities, these isolates were identified as belonging to the genus Burkholderia, and whole-cell-protein profiles demonstrated that they are closely related to each other. In the present study, novel isolates were recovered from the roots of different sugar-cane varieties cultivated in diverse geographical regions of Brazil. Twenty-one nitrogen-fixing isolates were analysed using polyphasic taxonomy criteria, including DNA-DNA relatedness, 16S rRNA gene sequence similarities, fatty acid profiles, whole-cell-protein patterns and multilocus enzyme electrophoresis profiles, as well as morphological, physiological and biochemical characterization. The analysis confirmed that these isolates belong to a novel species within the genus Burkholderia, for which the name Burkholderia silvatlantica sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain, SRMrh-20(T) (=LMG 23149(T)=ATCC BAA-1244(T)), was isolated from the rhizosphere of maize var. Avantis A2345 cultivated in Seropédica, Rio de Janeiro.	2006 Aug	Perin, L; Perin, L; Perin; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar; Paredes-Valdez, G; Paredes-Valdez, G; Paredes-Valdez; Baldani, J I; Baldani, JI; Baldani; Estrada-de Los Santos, P; Estrada-de Los Santos, P; Estrada-de Los Santos; Reis, V M; Reis, VM; Reis; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
16842354	Isolation and characterization of functional insertion sequences of rhizobia.	Rhizobia are a group of bacteria that form nodules on the roots of legume host plants. The sequenced genomes of the rhizobia are characterized by the presence of many putative insertion sequences (IS) elements. However, it is unknown whether these IS elements are functional and it is therefore relevant to assess their transposition activity. In this work, several functional insertion sequences belonging to the IS1256, IS3, IS5, IS166, and IS21 families were captured from Rhizobium tropici, Rhizobium sp. NGR234 and Sinorhizobium meliloti, using pGBG1 as a trapping system. In silico analysis shows that homologs of rhizobia mobile elements are present in distantly related genomes, suggesting that Rhizobium IS elements are prone to genetic transfer.	2006 Aug	Hernandez-Lucas, Ismael; Hernandez-Lucas, I; Hernandez-Lucas; Ramirez-Trujillo, Jose Augusto; Ramirez-Trujillo, JA; Ramirez-Trujillo; Gaitan, Miguel Angel; Gaitan, MA; Gaitan; Guo, Xianwu; Guo, X; Guo; Flores, Margarita; Flores, M; Flores; Martinez-Romero, Esperanza; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Perez-Rueda, Ernesto; Perez-Rueda, E; Perez-Rueda; Mavingui, Patrick; Mavingui, P; Mavingui	FEMS Microbiol Lett
16873524	Comparative footprinting of DNA-binding proteins.	Comparative modelling is a computational method used to tackle a variety of problems in molecular biology and biotechnology. Traditionally it has been applied to model the structure of proteins on their own or bound to small ligands, although more recently it has also been used to model protein-protein interfaces. This work is the first to systematically analyze whether comparative models of protein-DNA complexes could be built and be useful for predicting DNA binding sites.	2006 Jul	Contreras-Moreira, Bruno; Contreras-Moreira, B; Contreras-Moreira; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Bioinformatics
16772031	Identification and analysis of DNA-binding transcription factors in Bacillus subtilis and other Firmicutes--a genomic approach.	Bacillus subtilis is one of the best-characterized organisms in Gram-positive bacteria. It represents a paradigm of gene regulation in bacteria due its complex life style (which could involve a transition between stages as diverse as vegetative cell and spore formation). In order to gain insight into the organization and evolution of the B. subtilis regulatory network and to provide an alternative framework for further studies in bacteria, we identified and analyzed its repertoire of DNA-binding transcription factors in terms of their abundance, family distribution and regulated genes.	2006 Jun	Moreno-Campuzano, Samadhi; Moreno-Campuzano, S; Moreno-Campuzano; Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga; Pérez-Rueda, Ernesto; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda	BMC Genomics
16442259	Molecular phylogeny based on the 16S rRNA gene of elite rhizobial strains used in Brazilian commercial inoculants.	Nitrogen is often a limiting nutrient, therefore the sustainability of food crops, forages and green manure legumes is mainly associated with their ability to establish symbiotic associations with stem and root-nodulating N2-fixing rhizobia. The selection, identification and maintenance of elite strains for each host are critical. Decades of research in Brazil resulted in a list of strains officially recommended for several legumes, but their genetic diversity is poorly known. This study aimed at gaining a better understanding of phylogenetic relationships of 68 rhizobial strains recommended for 64 legumes, based on the sequencing of the 16S rRNA genes. The strains were isolated from a wide range of legumes, including all three subfamilies and 17 tribes. Nine main phylogenetic branches were defined, seven of them related to the rhizobial species: Bradyrhizobium japonicum, B. elkanii, Rhizobium tropici, R. leguminosarum, Sinorhizobium meliloti/S. fredii, Mesorhizobium ciceri/M. loti, and Azorhizobium caulinodans. However, some strains differed by up to 35 nucleotides from the type strains, which suggests that they may represent new species. Two other clusters included bacteria showing similarity with the genera Methylobacterium and Burkholderia, and amplification with primers for nifH and/or nodC regions was achieved with these strains. Host specificity of several strains was very low, as they were capable of nodulating legumes of different tribes and subfamilies. Furthermore, host specificity was not related to 16S rRNA, therefore evolution of ribosomal and symbiotic genes may have been diverse. Finally, the great diversity observed in this study emphasizes that tropics are an important reservoir of N2-fixation genes.	2006 Jun	Menna, Pâmela; Menna, P; Menna; Hungria, Mariangela; Hungria, M; Hungria; Barcellos, Fernando G; Barcellos, FG; Barcellos; Bangel, Eliane V; Bangel, EV; Bangel; Hess, Pablo N; Hess, PN; Hess; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
16690627	Metabolic engineering of rice with soybean isoflavone synthase for promoting nodulation gene expression in rhizobia.	Isoflavonoids are derived from a flavonone intermediate, naringenin, that is ubiquitously present in plants, and play a critical role in plant development and defence response. Isoflavonoids secreted by the legumes also play an important role in promoting the formation of nitrogen-fixing nodules by symbiotic rhizobia. In these plants, the key enzyme that redirects phenylpropanoid pathway intermediates from flavonoids to isoflavonoids is the cytochrome P450 mono-oxygenase, isoflavone synthase. In an effort to develop a rice variety possessing the ability to induce nodulation (nod) genes in rhizobia, the IFS gene from soybean was incorporated into rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Murasaki R86) under the control of the 35S promoter. The presence of IFS in transgenic rice was confirmed by PCR and Southern blot analysis. Analyses of the 35S-IFS transgenic lines demonstrated that the expression of the IFS gene led to the production of the isoflavone genistein in rice tissues. These results showed that the soybean IFS gene-expressed enzyme is active in the R86 rice plant, and that the naringenin intermediate of the anthocyanin pathway is available as a substrate for the introduced foreign enzyme. The genistein produced in rice cells was present in a glycoside form, indicating that endogenous glycosyltransferases were capable of recognizing genistein as a substrate. Studies with rhizobia demonstrated that the expression of isoflavone synthase confers rice plants with the ability to produce flavonoids that are able to induce nod gene expression, albeit to varied degrees, in different rhizobia.	2006	Sreevidya, V S; Sreevidya, VS; Sreevidya; Srinivasa Rao, C; Srinivasa Rao, C; Srinivasa Rao; Sullia, S B; Sullia, SB; Sullia; Ladha, Jagdish K; Ladha, JK; Ladha; Reddy, Pallavolu M; Reddy, PM; Reddy	J Exp Bot
16705749	Proteomic analysis of Tityus discrepans scorpion venom and amino acid sequence of novel toxins.	The Venezuelan scorpion Tityus discrepans is known to cause human fatalities. We describe the first complete proteomic analysis of its venom. By HPLC 58 different fractions were obtained and 205 different components were identified by MS analysis. Components having molecular masses from 272 to 57 908 amu were found. Forty homogeneous components had their N-terminal amino acid sequence determined by Edman degradation, from which two new peptides named TdK2 and TdK3 (meaning T. discrepans (Td) K(+) channel toxins 2 and 3) were fully characterized. The first contains 34 amino acid residues with a molecular mass of 3451 amu, and the second has 36 amino acids with 3832 amu. Both peptides are tightly bound by three disulfide bridges. TdK2 was shown to block reversibly the Shaker B K(+)-channel expressed heterologously in Sf9 cells. The systematic number assigned to TdK2 is alpha-KTx-18.2 and that of TdK3 is alpha-KTx-18.3. Comparative analysis of the amino acid sequences found suggests that this venom contains peptides highly similar to those that block K(+) channels, as well as those that modify the gating mechanisms of Na(+) channels, found in other scorpions. Additionally, peptides similar to defensins were also identified.	2006 Jun	Batista, Cesar V F; Batista, CV; Batista; D'Suze, Gina; D'Suze, G; D'Suze; Gómez-Lagunas, Froylan; Gómez-Lagunas, F; Gómez-Lagunas; Zamudio, Fernando Z; Zamudio, FZ; Zamudio; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Sevcik, Carlos; Sevcik, C; Sevcik; Possani, Lourival D; Possani, LD; Possani	Proteomics
16672447	Diazotrophic burkholderia species associated with field-grown maize and sugarcane.	Until recently, diazotrophy was known in only one of the 30 formally described species of Burkholderia. Novel N(2)-fixing plant-associated Burkholderia species such as B. unamae, B. tropica, and B. xenovorans have been described, but their environmental distribution is scarcely known. In the present study, the occurrence of N(2)-fixing Burkholderia species associated with different varieties of sugarcane and maize growing in regions of Mexico and Brazil was analyzed. Only 111 out of more than 900 isolates recovered had N(2)-fixing ability as demonstrated by the acetylene reduction assay. All 111 isolates also yielded a PCR product with primers targeting the nifH gene, which encodes a key enzyme in the process of nitrogen fixation. These 111 isolates were confirmed as belonging to the genus Burkholderia by using a new 16S rRNA-specific primer pair for diazotrophic species (except B. vietnamiensis) and closely related nondiazotrophic Burkholderia. In Mexico, many isolates of B. unamae (predominantly associated with sugarcane) and B. tropica (more often associated with maize) were recovered. However, in Brazil B. tropica was not identified among the isolates analyzed, and only a few B. unamae isolates were recovered from one sugarcane variety. Most Brazilian diazotrophic Burkholderia isolates (associated with both sugarcane and maize plants) belonged to a novel species, as revealed by amplified 16S rRNA gene restriction profiles, 16S rRNA gene sequencing, and protein electrophoresis. In addition, transmissibility factors such as the cblA and esmR genes, identified among clinical and environmental isolates of opportunistic pathogens of B. cenocepacia and other species of the B. cepacia complex, were not detected in any of the plant-associated diazotrophic Burkholderia isolates analyzed.	2006 May	Perin, L; Perin, L; Perin; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar; Castro-González, R; Castro-González, R; Castro-González; Estrada-de Los Santos, P; Estrada-de Los Santos, P; Estrada-de Los Santos; Cabellos-Avelar, T; Cabellos-Avelar, T; Cabellos-Avelar; Guedes, H V; Guedes, HV; Guedes; Reis, V M; Reis, VM; Reis; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	Appl Environ Microbiol
16547149	Proceedings of the SMBE Tri-National Young Investigators' Workshop 2005. Positional conservation of clusters of overlapping promoter-like sequences in enterobacterial genomes.	The selective mechanisms operating in regulatory regions of bacterial genomes are poorly understood. We have previously shown that, in most bacterial genomes, regulatory regions contain high densities of sigma70 promoter-like signals that are significantly above the densities detected in nonregulatory genomic regions. In order to investigate the molecular evolutionary forces that operate in bacterial regulatory regions and how they affect the observed redundancy of promoter-like signals, we have undertaken a comparative analysis across the completely sequenced genomes of enteric gamma-proteobacteria. This analysis detects significant positional conservation of promoter-like signal clusters across enterics, some times in spite of strong primary sequence divergence. This suggests that the conservation of the nature and exact position of specific nucleotides is not necessarily the priority of selection for maintaining the transcriptional function in these bacteria. We have further characterized the structural conservation of the regulatory regions of dnaQ and crp across all enterics. These two regions differ in essentiality and mode of regulation, the regulation of crp being more complex and involving interactions with several transcription factors. This results in substantially different modes of evolution, with the dnaQ region appearing to evolve under stronger purifying selection and the crp region showing the likely effects of stabilizing selection for a complex pattern of gene expression. The higher flexibility of the crp region is consistent with the observed less conservation of global regulators in evolution. Patterns of regulatory evolution are also found to be markedly different in endosymbiotic bacteria, in a manner consistent with regulatory regions suffering some level of degradation, as has been observed for many other characters in these genomes. Therefore, the mode of evolution of bacterial regulatory regions appears to be highly dependent on both the lifestyle of the bacterium and the specific regulatory requirements of different genes. In fact, in many bacteria, the mode of evolution of genes requiring significant physiological adaptability in expression levels may follow patterns similar to those operating in the more complex regulatory regions of eukaryotic genomes.	2006 May	Huerta, Araceli M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Francino, M Pilar; Francino, MP; Francino; SMBE Tri-National Young Investigators	Mol Biol Evol
16564956	Azorhizobium doebereinerae sp. Nov. Microsymbiont of Sesbania virgata (Caz.) Pers.	Thirty-four rhizobium strains were isolated from root nodules of the fast-growing woody native species Sesbania virgata in different regions of southeast Brazil (Minas Gerais and Rio de Janeiro States). These isolates had cultural characteristics on YMA quite similar to Azorhizobium caulinodans (alkalinization, scant extracellular polysaccharide production, fast or intermediate growth rate). They exhibited a high similarity of phenotypic and genotypic characteristics among themselves and to a lesser extent with A. caulinodans. DNA:DNA hybridization and 16SrRNA sequences support their inclusion in the genus Azorhizobium, but not in the species A. caulinodans. The name A. doebereinerae is proposed, with isolate UFLA1-100 (=BR5401, =LMG9993=SEMIA 6401) as the type strain.	2006 Apr	Maria de Souza Moreira, Fátima; Maria de Souza Moreira, F; Maria de Souza Moreira; Cruz, Leonardo; Cruz, L; Cruz; Miana de Faria, Sérgio; Miana de Faria, S; Miana de Faria; Marsh, Terence; Marsh, T; Marsh; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; de Oliveira Pedrosa, Fábio; de Oliveira Pedrosa, F; de Oliveira Pedrosa; Maria Pitard, Rosa; Maria Pitard, R; Maria Pitard; Peter W Young, J; Peter W Young, J; Peter W Young	Syst Appl Microbiol
16564961	Molecular diversity of native bradyrhizobia isolated from lima bean (Phaseolus lunatus L.) in Peru.	The diversity of a collection of 21 bradyrhizobial isolates from Lima bean (Phaseolus lunatus L.) was assayed by molecular methods. Moderately high to high genetic diversity was revealed by multilocus enzyme electrophoresis (MLEE) analysis of seven enzyme loci and genomic fingerprints with ERIC and BOX primers. Two groups with differences in growth rate were found among the isolates and their differentiation as two divergent bradyrhizobial lineages was supported by PCR-RFLP of the rpoB gene and sequence analysis of the 16S rDNA and dnaK genes. Isolates with slow growth (SG) were identified as Bradyrhizobium yuanmingense, while extra-slow growing isolates (ESG) constitute a new lineage different from all described Bradyrhizobium species. Three distinct symbiotic genotypes were detected among Lima bean bradyrhizobia by PCR-RFLP and sequence analysis of the nifH and nodB genes. One genotype was found in the ESG lineage and two in B. yuanmingense. Another symbiotic genotype was detected in B. yuamingense isolated from Lespedeza plants. The identified bradyrhizobial lineages constitute sympatric species effectively nodulating Lima bean on the coast of Peru.	2006 Apr	Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Zúñiga-Dávila, Doris; Zúñiga-Dávila, D; Zúñiga-Dávila; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
16528104	The Rhizobium etli sigma70 (SigA) factor recognizes a lax consensus promoter.	A collection of Rhizobium etli promoters was isolated from a genomic DNA library constructed in the promoter-trap vector pBBMCS53, by their ability to drive the expression of a gusA reporter gene. Thirty-seven clones were selected, and their transcriptional start-sites were determined. The upstream sequence of these 37 start-sites, and the sequences of seven previously identified promoters were compared. On the basis of sequence conservation and mutational analysis, a consensus sequence CTTGACN16-23TATNNT was obtained. In this consensus sequence, nine on of twelve bases are identical to the canonical Escherichia coli sigma70 promoter, however the R.etli promoters only contain 6.4 conserved bases on average. We show that the R.etli sigma factor SigA recognizes all R.etli promoters studied in this work, and that E.coli RpoD is incapable of recognizing them. The comparison of the predicted structure of SigA with the known structure of RpoD indicated that regions 2.4 and 4.2, responsible for promoter recognition, are different only by a single amino acid, whereas the region 1 of SigA contains 72 extra residues, suggesting that the differences contained in this region could be related to the lax promoter recognition of SigA.	2006	Ramírez-Romero, Miguel A; Ramírez-Romero, MA; Ramírez-Romero; Masulis, Irina; Masulis, I; Masulis; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila	Nucleic Acids Res
17578087	[Agriculture microbiology and microbe interaction with plants].	About the characterization and distribution of novel nitrogen-fixing Burkholderia species associated with maize and other plants and their potential use on the plant growth was presented in this symposium. The symposium included studies directed to the revegetation of eroded areas by using plant growth promoting rhizo-bacteria and mycorrizal fungi associated with desert plants, as well as studies related with the resistance of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi to heavy metals associated with the environmental pollution. In addition, the identification and characterization of a 31-kb chromosomal fragment from Pseudomonas syringae pv. phaseolicola was presented; such a fragment, involved with the phaseolotoxin synthesis, showed characteristic features of a bacterial pathogenicity island.	2006 Apr-Jun	Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	Rev Latinoam Microbiol
16505379	The partitioned Rhizobium etli genome: genetic and metabolic redundancy in seven interacting replicons.	We report the complete 6,530,228-bp genome sequence of the symbiotic nitrogen fixing bacterium Rhizobium etli. Six large plasmids comprise one-third of the total genome size. The chromosome encodes most functions necessary for cell growth, whereas few essential genes or complete metabolic pathways are located in plasmids. Chromosomal synteny is disrupted by genes related to insertion sequences, phages, plasmids, and cell-surface components. Plasmids do not show synteny, and their orthologs are mostly shared by accessory replicons of species with multipartite genomes. Some nodulation genes are predicted to be functionally related with chromosomal loci encoding for the external envelope of the bacterium. Several pieces of evidence suggest an exogenous origin for the symbiotic plasmid (p42d) and p42a. Additional putative horizontal gene transfer events might have contributed to expand the adaptive repertoire of R. etli, because they include genes involved in small molecule metabolism, transport, and transcriptional regulation. Twenty-three putative sigma factors, numerous isozymes, and paralogous families attest to the metabolic redundancy and the genomic plasticity necessary to sustain the lifestyle of R. etli in symbiosis and in the soil.	2006 Mar	González, Víctor; González, V; González; Santamaría, Rosa I; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Hernández-González, Ismael; Hernández-González, I; Hernández-González; Medrano-Soto, Arturo; Medrano-Soto, A; Medrano-Soto; Moreno-Hagelsieb, Gabriel; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb; Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga; Ramírez, Miguel A; Ramírez, MA; Ramírez; Jiménez-Jacinto, Verónica; Jiménez-Jacinto, V; Jiménez-Jacinto; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
16315011	Betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase from Pseudomonas aeruginosa: cloning, over-expression in Escherichia coli, and regulation by choline and salt.	In the human pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa, betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase (BADH) may play a dual role assimilating carbon and nitrogen from choline or choline precursors--abundant at infection sites--and producing glycine betaine, which protects the bacteria against the high-osmolarity stress prevalent in the infected tissues. We cloned the P. aeruginosa BADH gene and expressed the BADH protein in Escherichia coli. The recombinant protein appears identical to its native counterpart, as judged by Western blot, N-terminal amino acid sequence, tryptophan-fluorescence emission spectra, circular-dichroism spectroscopy, size-exclusion chromatography, and kinetic properties. Computational analysis indicated that the promoter sequence of the putative operon that includes the BADH gene has a consensus-binding site for the choline-sensing transcription repressor BetI, and putative boxes for ArcA and Lrp transcription factors but no known elements of response to osmotic stress. This is consistent with the strong induction of BADH expression by choline and with the lack of effect of NaCl. As there were significant amounts of BADH protein and activity in P. aeruginosa cells grown on glucose plus choline, as well as the BADH activity exhibiting tolerance to salt, it is likely that glycine betaine is synthesized in vivo and could play an important osmoprotectant role under conditions of infection.	2006 Mar	Velasco-García, Roberto; Velasco-García, R; Velasco-García; Villalobos, Miguel Angel; Villalobos, MA; Villalobos; Ramírez-Romero, Miguel A; Ramírez-Romero, MA; Ramírez-Romero; Mújica-Jiménez, Carlos; Mújica-Jiménez, C; Mújica-Jiménez; Iturriaga, Gabriel; Iturriaga, G; Iturriaga; Muñoz-Clares, Rosario A; Muñoz-Clares, RA; Muñoz-Clares	Arch Microbiol
16337432	The genome project of Taenia solium.	We have constituted a consortium of key laboratories at the National Autonomous University of Mexico to carry out a genomic project for Taenia solium. This project will provide powerful resources for the study of taeniasis/cysticercosis, and, in conjunction with the Echinococcus granulosus and Echinococcus multilocularis genome project of expressed sequence tags (ESTs), will mark the advent of genomics for cestode parasites. Our project is planned in two consecutive stages. The first stage is being carried out to determine some basic parameters of the T. solium genome. Afterwards, we will evaluate the best strategy for the second stage, a full blown genome project. We have estimated the T. solium genome size by two different approaches: cytofluorometry on isolated cyton nuclei, as well as a probabilistic calculation based on approximately 2000 sequenced genomic clones, approximately 3000 ESTs, resulting in size estimates of 270 and 251 Mb, respectively. In terms of sequencing, our goal for the first stage is to characterize several thousand EST's (from adult worm and cysticerci cDNA libraries) and genomic clones. Results obtained so far from about 16,000 sequenced ESTs from the adult stage, show that only about 40% of the T. solium coding sequences have a previously sequenced homologue. Many of the best hits are found with mammalian genes, especially with humans. However, 1.5% of the hits lack homologues in humans, making these genes immediate candidates for investigation on pharmaco-therapy, diagnostics and vaccination. Most T. solium ESTs are related to gene regulation, and signal transduction. Other important functions are housekeeping, metabolism, cell division, cytoskeleton, proteases, vacuolar transport, hormone response, and extracellular matrix activities. Preliminary results also suggest that the genome of T. solium is not highly repetitive.	2006	Aguilar-Díaz, Hugo; Aguilar-Díaz, H; Aguilar-Díaz; Bobes, Raúl J; Bobes, RJ; Bobes; Carrero, Julio C; Carrero, JC; Carrero; Camacho-Carranza, Rafael; Camacho-Carranza, R; Camacho-Carranza; Cervantes, Claudia; Cervantes, C; Cervantes; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; Rodríguez-Dorantes, Mauricio; Rodríguez-Dorantes, M; Rodríguez-Dorantes; Escobedo, Galileo; Escobedo, G; Escobedo; Fernández, José Luis; Fernández, JL; Fernández; Fragoso, Gladis; Fragoso, G; Fragoso; Gaytán, Paul; Gaytán, P; Gaytán; Garciarubio, Alejandro; Garciarubio, A; Garciarubio; González, Victor M; González, VM; González; González, Lorena; González, L; González; José, Marco V; José, MV; José; Jiménez, Lucía; Jiménez, L; Jiménez; Laclette, Juan P; Laclette, JP; Laclette; Landa, Abraham; Landa, A; Landa; Larralde, Carlos; Larralde, C; Larralde; Morales-Montor, Jorge; Morales-Montor, J; Morales-Montor; Morett, Enrique; Morett, E; Morett; Ostoa-Saloma, Pedro; Ostoa-Saloma, P; Ostoa-Saloma; Sciutto, Edda; Sciutto, E; Sciutto; Santamaría, Rosa I; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Soberón, Xavier; Soberón, X; Soberón; de la Torre, Patricia; de la Torre, P; de la Torre; Valdés, Víctor; Valdés, V; Valdés; Yánez, Jorge; Yánez, J; Yánez	Parasitol Int
16398937	The comprehensive updated regulatory network of Escherichia coli K-12.	Escherichia coli is the model organism for which our knowledge of its regulatory network is the most extensive. Over the last few years, our project has been collecting and curating the literature concerning E. coli transcription initiation and operons, providing in both the RegulonDB and EcoCyc databases the largest electronically encoded network available. A paper published recently by Ma et al. (2004) showed several differences in the versions of the network present in these two databases. Discrepancies have been corrected, annotations from this and other groups (Shen-Orr et al., 2002) have been added, making the RegulonDB and EcoCyc databases the largest comprehensive and constantly curated regulatory network of E. coli K-12.	2006 Jan	Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Peralta-Gil, Martín; Peralta-Gil, M; Peralta-Gil; Peñaloza-Spínola, Mónica I; Peñaloza-Spínola, MI; Peñaloza-Spínola; Martínez-Antonio, Agustino; Martínez-Antonio, A; Martínez-Antonio; Karp, Peter D; Karp, PD; Karp; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	BMC Bioinformatics
17578085	[Genomics and functional genomics in microbiology].	Functional genomics is changing our understanding of biology and changing our approach to biological research. It brings about concerted, high-throughput genetics with analyses of gene transcripts, proteins, and metabolites to answer the ultimate question posed by all genome-sequencing projects: what is the biological function of each and every gene? Functional genomics is stimulating a change in the research paradigm away from the analysis of single genes, proteins, or metabolites towards the analysis of each of these parameters on a global scale. By identifying and measuring several, if not the entire, molecular group of actors that take part in a given biological process, functional genomics offers the panorama of obtaining a truly holistic representation of life. Functional genomics methods are defined by high-throughput methods which are, not necessarily hypothesis-dependent. They offer insights into mRNA expression, protein expression, protein localization, and protein interactions and may cast light on the flow of information within signaling pathways. At its beginning, biology involved observing nature and experimenting on its isolated parts. Genomic research now generates new types of complex observational data derived from nature. This review describes the tools that are currently being used for functional genomics work and considers the impact that this new discipline on microbiology research.	2006 Apr-Jun	Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara	Rev Latinoam Microbiol
32689290	Identification of candidate phosphorus stress induced genes in Phaseolus vulgaris through clustering analysis across several plant species.	Common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) is the world's most important grain legume for direct human consumption. However, the soils in which common bean predominate are frequently limited by the availability of phosphorus (P). Improving bean yield and quality requires an understanding of the genes controlling P acquisition and use, ultimately utilising these genes for crop improvement. Here we report an in silico approach for the identification of genes involved in adaptation of P. vulgaris and other legumes to P-deficiency. Some 22 groups of genes from four legume species and Arabidopsis thaliana, encoding diverse functions, were identified as statistically over-represented in EST contigs from P-stressed tissues. By combining bioinformatics analysis with available micro / macroarray technologies and clustering results across five species, we identified 52 P. vulgaris candidate genes belonging to 19 categories as induced by P-stress response. Transport-related, stress (defence and regulation) signal transduction genes are abundantly represented. Manipulating these genes through traditional breeding methodologies and / or biotechnology approaches may allow us to improve crop P-nutrition.	2006 Aug	Graham, Michelle A; Graham, MA; Graham; Ramírez, Mario; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Valdés-López, Oswaldo; Valdés-López, O; Valdés-López; Lara, Miguel; Lara, M; Lara; Tesfaye, Mesfin; Tesfaye, M; Tesfaye; Vance, Carroll P; Vance, CP; Vance; Hernandez, Georgina; Hernandez, G; Hernandez	Funct Plant Biol
16311037	Internal-sensing machinery directs the activity of the regulatory network in Escherichia coli.	Individual cells need to discern and synchronize transcriptional responses according to variations in external and internal conditions. Metabolites and chemical compounds are sensed by transcription factors (TFs), which direct the corresponding specific transcriptional responses. We propose a classification of the currently known TFs of Escherichia coli based on whether they respond to metabolites incorporated from the exterior, to internally produced compounds, or to both. When analyzing the mutual interactions of TFs, the dominant role of internal signal sensing becomes apparent, greatly due to the role of global regulators of transcription. This work encompasses metabolite-TF interactions, bridging the gap between the metabolic and regulatory networks, thus advancing towards an integrated network model for the understanding of cellular behavior.	2006 Jan	Martínez-Antonio, Agustino; Martínez-Antonio, A; Martínez-Antonio; Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Trends Microbiol
16381895	RegulonDB (version 5.0): Escherichia coli K-12 transcriptional regulatory network, operon organization, and growth conditions.	RegulonDB is the internationally recognized reference database of Escherichia coli K-12 offering curated knowledge of the regulatory network and operon organization. It is currently the largest electronically-encoded database of the regulatory network of any free-living organism. We present here the recently launched RegulonDB version 5.0 radically different in content, interface design and capabilities. Continuous curation of original scientific literature provides the evidence behind every single object and feature. This knowledge is complemented with comprehensive computational predictions across the complete genome. Literature-based and predicted data are clearly distinguished in the database. Starting with this version, RegulonDB public releases are synchronized with those of EcoCyc since our curation supports both databases. The complex biology of regulation is simplified in a navigation scheme based on three major streams: genes, operons and regulons. Regulatory knowledge is directly available in every navigation step. Displays combine graphic and textual information and are organized allowing different levels of detail and biological context. This knowledge is the backbone of an integrated system for the graphic display of the network, graphic and tabular microarray comparisons with curated and predicted objects, as well as predictions across bacterial genomes, and predicted networks of functionally related gene products. Access RegulonDB at http://regulondb.ccg.unam.mx.	2006 Jan	Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Peralta-Gil, Martín; Peralta-Gil, M; Peralta-Gil; Díaz-Peredo, Edgar; Díaz-Peredo, E; Díaz-Peredo; Sánchez-Solano, Fabiola; Sánchez-Solano, F; Sánchez-Solano; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; Jiménez-Jacinto, Verónica; Jiménez-Jacinto, V; Jiménez-Jacinto; Bonavides-Martínez, César; Bonavides-Martínez, C; Bonavides-Martínez; Segura-Salazar, Juan; Segura-Salazar, J; Segura-Salazar; Martínez-Antonio, Agustino; Martínez-Antonio, A; Martínez-Antonio; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
16914446	The distinctive signatures of promoter regions and operon junctions across prokaryotes.	Here we show that regions upstream of first transcribed genes have oligonucleotide signatures that distinguish them from regions upstream of genes in the middle of operons. Databases of experimentally confirmed transcription units do not exist for most genomes. Thus, to expand the analyses into genomes with no experimentally confirmed data, we used genes conserved adjacent in evolutionarily distant genomes as representatives of genes inside operons. Likewise, we used divergently transcribed genes as representative examples of first transcribed genes. In model organisms, the trinucleotide signatures of regions upstream of these representative genes allow for operon predictions with accuracies close to those obtained with known operon data (0.8). Signature-based operon predictions have more similar phylogenetic profiles and higher proportions of genes in the same pathways than predicted transcription unit boundaries (TUBs). These results confirm that we are separating genes with related functions, as expected for operons, from genes not necessarily related, as expected for genes in different transcription units. We also test the quality of the predictions using microarray data in six genomes and show that the signature-predicted operons tend to have high correlations of expression. Oligonucleotide signatures should expand the number of tools available to identify operons even in poorly characterized genomes.	2006	Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga; Lamboy, Warren F; Lamboy, WF; Lamboy; Huerta, Araceli M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Moreno-Hagelsieb, Gabriel; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb	Nucleic Acids Res
16333295	Minimum information requested in the annotation of biochemical models (MIRIAM).	Most of the published quantitative models in biology are lost for the community because they are either not made available or they are insufficiently characterized to allow them to be reused. The lack of a standard description format, lack of stringent reviewing and authors' carelessness are the main causes for incomplete model descriptions. With today's increased interest in detailed biochemical models, it is necessary to define a minimum quality standard for the encoding of those models. We propose a set of rules for curating quantitative models of biological systems. These rules define procedures for encoding and annotating models represented in machine-readable form. We believe their application will enable users to (i) have confidence that curated models are an accurate reflection of their associated reference descriptions, (ii) search collections of curated models with precision, (iii) quickly identify the biological phenomena that a given curated model or model constituent represents and (iv) facilitate model reuse and composition into large subcellular models.	2005 Dec	Le Novère, Nicolas; Le Novère, N; Le Novère; Finney, Andrew; Finney, A; Finney; Hucka, Michael; Hucka, M; Hucka; Bhalla, Upinder S; Bhalla, US; Bhalla; Campagne, Fabien; Campagne, F; Campagne; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Crampin, Edmund J; Crampin, EJ; Crampin; Halstead, Matt; Halstead, M; Halstead; Klipp, Edda; Klipp, E; Klipp; Mendes, Pedro; Mendes, P; Mendes; Nielsen, Poul; Nielsen, P; Nielsen; Sauro, Herbert; Sauro, H; Sauro; Shapiro, Bruce; Shapiro, B; Shapiro; Snoep, Jacky L; Snoep, JL; Snoep; Spence, Hugh D; Spence, HD; Spence; Wanner, Barry L; Wanner, BL; Wanner	Nat Biotechnol
16236313	Comparative studies of transcriptional regulation mechanisms in a group of eight gamma-proteobacterial genomes.	Experimental data on the Escherichia coli transcriptional regulation has enabled the construction of statistical models to predict new regulatory elements within its genome. Far less is known about the transcriptional regulatory elements in other gamma-proteobacteria with sequenced genomes, so it is of great interest to conduct comparative genomic studies oriented to extracting biologically relevant information about transcriptional regulation in these less studied organisms using the knowledge from E. coli. In this work, we use the information stored in the TRACTOR_DB database to conduct a comparative study on the mechanisms of transcriptional regulation in eight gamma-proteobacteria and 38 regulons. We assess the conservation of transcription factors binding specificity across all the eight genomes and show a correlation between the conservation of a regulatory site and the structure of the transcription unit it regulates. We also find a marked conservation of site-promoter distances across the eight organisms and a correspondence of the statistical significance of co-occurrence of pairs of transcription factor binding sites in the regulatory regions, which is probably related to a conserved architecture of higher-order regulatory complexes in the organisms studied. The results obtained in this study using the information on transcriptional regulation in E. coli enable us to conclude that not only transcription factor-binding sites are conserved across related species but also several of the transcriptional regulatory mechanisms previously identified in E. coli.	2005 Nov	Espinosa, Vladimir; Espinosa, V; Espinosa; González, Abel D; González, AD; González; Vasconcelos, Ana T; Vasconcelos, AT; Vasconcelos; Huerta, Araceli M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	J Mol Biol
16183216	The mitochondrial genome sequence of the scorpion Centruroides limpidus (Karsch 1879) (Chelicerata; Arachnida).	The mitochondrial genome of the scorpion Centruroides limpidus (Chelicerata; Arachnida) has been completely sequenced and is 14519 bp long. The genome contains 13 protein-encoding genes, two ribosomal RNA genes, 21 transfer RNA genes and a large non-coding region related to the control region. The overall A+T composition is the lowest among the complete mitochondrial sequences published within the Chelicerata subphylum. Gene order and gene content differ slightly from that of Limulus polyphemus (Chelicerata: Xiphosura): i.e., the lack of the trnD gene, and the translocation-inversion of the trnI gene. Preliminary phylogenetic analysis of some Chelicerata shows that scorpions (C. limpidus and Mesobuthus gibbosus) make a tight cluster with the spiders (Arachnida; Araneae). Our analysis does not support that Scorpiones order is the sister group to all Arachnida Class, since it is closer to Araneae than to Acari orders.	2005 Nov	Dávila, Sonia; Dávila, S; Dávila; Piñero, Daniel; Piñero, D; Piñero; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila	Gene
15867197	Nebulon: a system for the inference of functional relationships of gene products from the rearrangement of predicted operons.	Since operons are unstable across Prokaryotes, it has been suggested that perhaps they re-combine in a conservative manner. Thus, genes belonging to a given operon in one genome might re-associate in other genomes revealing functional relationships among gene products. We developed a system to build networks of functional relationships of gene products based on their organization into operons in any available genome. The operon predictions are based on inter-genic distances. Our system can use different kinds of thresholds to accept a functional relationship, either related to the prediction of operons, or to the number of non-redundant genomes that support the associations. We also work by shells, meaning that we decide on the number of linking iterations to allow for the complementation of related gene sets. The method shows high reliability benchmarked against knowledge-bases of functional interactions. We also illustrate the use of Nebulon in finding new members of regulons, and of other functional groups of genes. Operon rearrangements produce thousands of high-quality new interactions per prokaryotic genome, and thousands of confirmations per genome to other predictions, making it another important tool for the inference of functional interactions from genomic context.	2005	Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Moreno-Hagelsieb, Gabriel; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb	Nucleic Acids Res
16353552	A ClC chloride channel homolog and ornithine-containing membrane lipids of Rhizobium tropici CIAT899 are involved in symbiotic efficiency and acid tolerance.	Rhizobium tropici CIAT899 is highly tolerant to several environmental stresses and is a good competitor for nodule occupancy of common bean plants in acid soils. Random transposon mutagenesis was performed to identify novel genes of this strain involved in symbiosis and stress tolerance. Here, we present a genetic analysis of the locus disrupted by the Tn5 insertion in mutant 899-PV9, which lead to the discovery of sycA, a homolog of the ClC family of chloride channels and Cl-/H+ exchange transporters. A nonpolar deletion in this gene caused serious deficiencies in nodule development, nodulation competitiveness, and N2 fixation on Phaseolus vulgaris plants, probably due to its reduced ability to invade plant cells and to form stable symbiosomes, as judged by electron transmission microscopy. A second gene (olsC), found downstream of sycA, is homologous to aspartyl/asparaginyl beta-hydroxylases and modifies two species of ornithine-containing lipids in vivo, presumably by hydroxylation at a still-unknown position. A mutant carrying a nonpolar deletion in olsC is symbiotically defective, whereas overexpressed OlsC in the complemented strain provokes an acid-sensitive phenotype. This is the first report of a ClC homolog being essential for the establishment of a fully developed N2-fixing root nodule symbiosis and of a putative beta-hydroxylase that modifies ornithine-containing membrane lipids of R. tropici CIAT899, which, in turn, are contributing to symbiotic performance and acid tolerance.	2005 Nov	Rojas-Jiménez, Keilor; Rojas-Jiménez, K; Rojas-Jiménez; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Werner, Dietrich; Werner, D; Werner; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
16005966	An antisense RNA plays a central role in the replication control of a repC plasmid.	The widespread replicons of repABC and repC families from alpha-proteobacteria share high similarity in their replication initiator proteins (RepC). Here we describe the minimal region required for stable replication of a member of the repC family, the low copy-number plasmid pRmeGR4a from Sinorizobium meliloti GR4. This region contains only two genes: one encoding the initiator protein RepC (46.8 kDa) and other, an antisense RNA (67 nt). Mapping of transcriptional start sites and promoter regions of both genes showed that the antisense RNA is nested within the repC mRNA leader. The constitutively expressed countertranscribed RNA (ctRNA) forms a single stem-loop structure that acts as an intrinsic rho-independent terminator. The ctRNA is a strong trans-incompatibility factor and negative regulator of repC expression. Based on structural and functional similarities between members of the repC and repABC families we propose a model of their evolutionary relationship.	2005 Nov	Izquierdo, Javier; Izquierdo, J; Izquierdo; Venkova-Canova, Tatiana; Venkova-Canova, T; Venkova-Canova; Ramírez-Romero, Miguel A; Ramírez-Romero, MA; Ramírez-Romero; Téllez-Sosa, Juan; Téllez-Sosa, J; Téllez-Sosa; Hernández-Lucas, Ismael; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Sanjuan, Juan; Sanjuan, J; Sanjuan; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	Plasmid
16237002	Diversification of DNA sequences in the symbiotic genome of Rhizobium etli.	Bacteria of the genus Rhizobium and related genera establish nitrogen-fixing symbioses with the roots of leguminous plants. The genetic elements that participate in the symbiotic process are usually compartmentalized in the genome, either as independent replicons (symbiotic plasmids) or as symbiotic regions or islands in the chromosome. The complete nucleotide sequence of the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium etli model strain CFN42, symbiont of the common bean plant, has been reported. To better understand the basis of DNA sequence diversification of this symbiotic compartment, we analyzed the distribution of single-nucleotide polymorphisms in homologous regions from different Rhizobium etli strains. The distribution of polymorphisms is highly asymmetric in each of the different strains, alternating regions containing very few changes with regions harboring an elevated number of substitutions. The regions showing high polymorphism do not correspond with discrete genetic elements and are not the same in the different strains, indicating that they are not hypervariable regions of functional genes. Most interesting, some highly polymorphic regions share exactly the same nucleotide substitutions in more than one strain. Furthermore, in different regions of the symbiotic compartment, different sets of strains share the same substitutions. The data indicate that the majority of nucleotide substitutions are spread in the population by recombination and that the contribution of new mutations to polymorphism is relatively low. We propose that the horizontal transfer of homologous DNA segments among closely related organisms is a major source of genomic diversification.	2005 Nov	Flores, Margarita; Flores, M; Flores; Morales, Lucia; Morales, L; Morales; Avila, Agustín; Avila, A; Avila; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; García, Delfino; García, D; García; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Guo, Xianwu; Guo, X; Guo; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Piñero, Daniel; Piñero, D; Piñero; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora; Palacios, Rafael; Palacios, R; Palacios	J Bacteriol
16262857	Evolutionary genetics and biogeographic structure of Rhizobium gallicum sensu lato, a widely distributed bacterial symbiont of diverse legumes.	We used phylogenetic and population genetics approaches to evaluate the importance of the evolutionary forces on shaping the genetic structure of Rhizobium gallicum and related species. We analysed 54 strains from several populations distributed in the Northern Hemisphere, using nucleotide sequences of three 'core' chromosomal genes (rrs, glnII and atpD) and two 'auxiliary' symbiotic genes (nifH and nodB) to elucidate the biogeographic history of the species and symbiotic ecotypes (biovarieties) within species. The analyses revealed that strains classified as Rhizobium mongolense and Rhizobium yanglingense belong to the chromosomal evolutionary lineage of R. gallicum and harbour symbiotic genes corresponding to a new biovar; we propose their reclassification as R. gallicum bv. orientale. The comparison of the chromosomal and symbiotic genes revealed evidence of lateral transfer of symbiotic information within and across species. Genetic differentiation analyses based on the chromosomal protein-coding genes revealed a biogeographic pattern with three main populations, whereas the 16S rDNA sequences did not resolve that biogeographic pattern. Both the phylogenetic and population genetic analyses showed evidence of recombination at the rrs locus. We discuss our results in the light of the contrasting views of bacterial species expressed by microbial taxonomist and evolutionary biologists.	2005 Nov	Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Eguiarte, Luis E; Eguiarte, LE; Eguiarte; Souza, Valeria; Souza, V; Souza; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Mol Ecol
16237017	Identification of the rctA gene, which is required for repression of conjugative transfer of rhizobial symbiotic megaplasmids.	An analysis of the conjugative transfer of pRetCFN42d, the symbiotic plasmid (pSym) of Rhizobium etli, has revealed a novel gene, rctA, as an essential element of a regulatory system for silencing the conjugative transfer of R. etli pSym by repressing the transcription of conjugal transfer genes in standard laboratory media. The rctA gene product lacks sequence conservation with other proteins of known function but may belong to the winged-helix DNA-binding subfamily of transcriptional regulators. Similar to that of many transcriptional repressors, rctA transcription seems to be positively autoregulated. rctA expression is greatly reduced upon overexpression of another gene, rctB, previously identified as a putative activator of R. etli pSym conjugal transfer. Thus, rctB seems to counteract the repressive action of rctA. rctA homologs are present in at least three other bacterial genomes within the order Rhizobiales, where they are invariably located adjacent to and divergently transcribed from putative virB-like operons. We show that similar to that of R. etli pSym, conjugative transfer of the 1.35-Mb symbiotic megaplasmid A of Sinorhizobium meliloti is also subjected to the inhibitory action of rctA. Our data provide strong evidence that the R. etli and S. meliloti pSym plasmids are indeed self-conjugative plasmids and that this property would only be expressed under optimal, as yet unknown conditions that entail inactivation of the rctA function. The rctA gene seems to represent novel but probably widespread regulatory systems controlling the transfer of conjugative elements within the order Rhizobiales.	2005 Nov	Pérez-Mendoza, Daniel; Pérez-Mendoza, D; Pérez-Mendoza; Sepúlveda, Edgardo; Sepúlveda, E; Sepúlveda; Pando, Victoria; Pando, V; Pando; Muñoz, Socorro; Muñoz, S; Muñoz; Nogales, Joaquina; Nogales, J; Nogales; Olivares, José; Olivares, J; Olivares; Soto, Maria J; Soto, MJ; Soto; Herrera-Cervera, José A; Herrera-Cervera, JA; Herrera-Cervera; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; Sanjuán, Juan; Sanjuán, J; Sanjuán	J Bacteriol
16229745	Evolutionary, structural and functional relationships revealed by comparative analysis of syntenic genes in Rhizobiales.	Comparative genomics has provided valuable insights into the nature of gene sequence variation and chromosomal organization of closely related bacterial species. However, questions about the biological significance of gene order conservation, or synteny, remain open. Moreover, few comprehensive studies have been reported for rhizobial genomes.	2005 Oct	Guerrero, Gabriela; Guerrero, G; Guerrero; Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta; Aguilar, Alejandro; Aguilar, A; Aguilar; Díaz, Rafael; Díaz, R; Díaz; Villalobos, Miguel Angel; Villalobos, MA; Villalobos; Medrano-Soto, Arturo; Medrano-Soto, A; Medrano-Soto; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	BMC Evol Biol
16261860	Molecular systematics of rhizobia based on maximum likelihood and Bayesian phylogenies inferred from rrs, atpD, recA and nifH sequences, and their use in the classification of Sesbania microsymbionts from Venezuelan wetlands.	A well-resolved rhizobial species phylogeny with 51 haplotypes was inferred from a combined atpD + recA data set using Bayesian inference with best-fit, gene-specific substitution models. Relatively dense taxon sampling for the genera Rhizobium and Mesorhizobium was achieved by generating atpD and recA sequences for six type and 24 reference strains not previously available in GenBank. This phylogeny was used to classify nine nodule isolates from Sesbania exasperata, S. punicea and S. sericea plants native to seasonally flooded areas of Venezuela, and compared with a PCR-RFLP analysis of rrs plus rrl genes and large maximum likelihood rrs and nifH phylogenies. We show that rrs phylogenies are particularly sensitive to strain choice due to the high levels of sequence mosaicism found at this locus. All analyses consistently identified the Sesbania isolates as Mesorhizobium plurifarium or Rhizobium huautlense. Host range experiments on ten legume species coupled with plasmid profiling uncovered potential novel biovarieties of both species. This study demonstrates the wide geographic and environmental distribution of M. plurifarium, that R. galegae and R. huautlense are sister lineages, and the synonymy of R. gallicum, R. mongolense and R. yanglingense. Complex and diverse phylogeographic, inheritance and host-association patterns were found for the symbiotic nifH locus. The results and the analytical approaches used herein are discussed in the context of rhizobial taxonomy and molecular systematics.	2005 Oct	Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva; Lorite, María José; Lorite, MJ; Lorite; Izaguirre-Mayoral, María Luisa; Izaguirre-Mayoral, ML; Izaguirre-Mayoral; Bedmar, Eulogio J; Bedmar, EJ; Bedmar; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
16099603	The Rhizobium etli bioMNY operon is involved in biotin transport.	Because Rhizobium etli CE3 is normally dependent on an external source of biotin and lacks orthodox biotin biosynthesis genes, we undertook an analysis of biotin uptake in this organism. By complementation of a Sinorhizobium meliloti bioM mutant we isolated an R. etli chromosomal region encoding homologs of the S. meliloti bioMNB genes, whose products have been implicated in intracellular biotin retention in that organism. Disruption of the R. etli bioM resulted in a mutant which took up biotin at a lower rate and accumulated significantly less biotin than the wild type. As in S. meliloti, the R. etli bioMN gene-products resemble the ATPase and permease components, respectively, of an ABC-type transporter. The bioB gene product is in fact similar to members of the BioY family, which has been postulated to function in biotin transport, and we refer to this gene as bioY. An R. etli bioY mutant exhibited lower biotin uptake than the wild-type, providing the first experimental evidence for a role of BioY in biotin transport. We show that the bioMNY operon is transcriptionally repressed by biotin. An analysis of the competitiveness of the wild-type strain versus the bioM mutant showed that the mutant had a diminished capacity to form nodules on bean plants.	2005 Sep	Guillén-Navarro, Karina; Guillén-Navarro, K; Guillén-Navarro; Araíza, Gisela; Araíza, G; Araíza; García-de los Santos, Alejandro; García-de los Santos, A; García-de los Santos; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn	FEMS Microbiol Lett
16329972	Antagonism among Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus strains in culture media and in endophytic association.	In this study the antagonistic activity among 55 Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus strains, belonging to 13 electrophoretic types (ETs), in culture media was analyzed. Antagonistic effects were seen only in strains belonging to two ETs named ET-1 and ET-3. Two out of 29 ET-1 strains, and 3 out of 7 ET-3 strains of G. diazotrophicus showed antagonistic effects against many other strains belonging to all the ETs of this species analyzed, and against closely related strains of Gluconacetobacter species, including Gluconacetobacter johannae, Gluconacetobacter azotocaptans and Gluconacetobacter liquefaciens but not against other phylogenetically distant bacterial species. Results showed that the substance responsible of such antagonistic activity is a low molecular mass molecule (approximately 3400 Da), stable from pH 3.5 to 8.5, and very stable at 4 degrees C for 10 months. This substance was sensitive to proteases, and the antagonistic activity was lost after 2 h at 95 degrees C. All of these features show that the substance is related to bacteriocin-like molecules. The antagonistic substance should be chromosomally encoded because ET-3 strains of G. diazotrophicus do not harbor any plasmids. The antagonistic ability of ET-3 strains of G. diazotrophicus could be an advantage for the natural colonization of the sugarcane environment, as was observed in experiments with micropropagated sterile sugarcane plantlets co-inoculated with a bacteriocin-producer strain and a bacteriocin-sensitive strain of G. diazotrophicus. In these experiments, both in the rhizosphere as well as inside the roots, the bacteriocin-sensitive population decreased drastically. In addition, this study shows that inside the plants there may exist antagonistic interactions among endophytic bacteria like to those described among the rhizospheric community.	2005 Sep	Muñoz-Rojas, Jesús; Muñoz-Rojas, J; Muñoz-Rojas; Fuentes-Ramírez, Luis E; Fuentes-Ramírez, LE; Fuentes-Ramírez; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	FEMS Microbiol Ecol
16167767	Phosphorus-free membrane lipids of Sinorhizobium meliloti are not required for the symbiosis with alfalfa but contribute to increased cell yields under phosphorus-limiting conditions of growth.	The microsymbiont of alfalfa, Sinorhizobium meliloti, possesses phosphatidylglycerol, cardiolipin, phosphatidylethanolamine, and phosphatidylcholine as major membrane phospholipids, when grown in the presence of sufficient accessible phosphorus sources. Under phosphate-limiting conditions of growth, S. meliloti replaces its phospholipids by membrane lipids that do not contain any phosphorus in their molecular structure and, in S. meliloti, these phosphorus-free membrane lipids are sulphoquinovosyl diacylglycerols (SL), ornithine-containing lipids (OL), and diacylglyceryl-N,N,N-trimethylhomoserines (DGTS). In earlier work, we demonstrated that neither SL nor OL are required for establishing a nitrogen-fixing root nodule symbiosis with alfalfa. We now report the identification of the two structural genes btaA and btaB from S. meliloti required for DGTS biosynthesis. When the sinorhizobial btaA and btaB genes are expressed in Escherichia coli, they cause the formation of DGTS in this latter organism. A btaA-deficient mutant of S. meliloti is unable to form DGTS but can form nitrogen-fixing root nodules on alfalfa, demonstrating that sinorhizobial DGTS is not required for establishing a successful symbiosis with the host plant. Even a triple mutant of S. meliloti, unable to form any of the phosphorus-free membrane lipids SL, OL, or DGTS is equally competitive for nodule occupancy as the wild type. Only under growth-limiting concentrations of phosphate in culture media did mutants that could form neither OL nor DGTS grow to lesser cell densities.	2005 Sep	López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Gao, Jun-Lian; Gao, JL; Gao; Soto, María José; Soto, MJ; Soto; Solares-Pérez, Alhondra; Solares-Pérez, A; Solares-Pérez; Weissenmayer, Barbara; Weissenmayer, B; Weissenmayer; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Verroios, George P; Verroios, GP; Verroios; Thomas-Oates, Jane; Thomas-Oates, J; Thomas-Oates; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
16145578	Comparative proteomics using 2-D gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry as tools to dissect stimulons and regulons in bacteria with sequenced or partially sequenced genomes.	We propose two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) and mass spectrometry to define the protein components of regulons and stimulons in bacteria, including those organisms where genome sequencing is still in progress. The basic 2-DE protocol allows high resolution and reproducibility and enables the direct comparison of hundreds or even thousands of proteins simultaneously. To identify proteins that comprise stimulons and regulons, peptide mass fingerprint (PMF) with matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization/time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS) analysis is the first option and, if results from this tool are insufficient, complementary data obtained with electrospray ionization tandem-MS (ESI-MS/MS) may permit successful protein identification. ESI-MS/MS and MALDI-TOF-MS provide complementary data sets, and so a more comprehensive coverage of a proteome can be obtained using both techniques with the same sample, especially when few sequenced proteins of a particular organism exist or genome sequencing is still in progress.	2005	Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Hernández, Magdalena; Hernández, M; Hernández; Martínez-Batallar, Gabriel; Martínez-Batallar, G; Martínez-Batallar; Contreras, Sandra; Contreras, S; Contreras; Vargas, María del Carmen; Vargas, Mdel C; Vargas; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	Biol Proced Online
15972018	Complementing computationally predicted regulatory sites in Tractor_DB using a pattern matching approach.	Prokaryotic genomes annotation has focused on genes location and function. The lack of regulatory information has limited the knowledge on cellular transcriptional regulatory networks. However, as more phylogenetically close genomes are sequenced and annotated, the implementation of phylogenetic footprinting strategies for the recognition of regulators and their regulons becomes more important. In this paper we describe a comparative genomics approach to the prediction of new gamma-proteobacterial regulon members. We take advantage of the phylogenetic proximity of Escherichia coli and other 16 organisms of this subdivision and the intensive search of the space sequence provided by a pattern-matching strategy. Using this approach we complement predictions of regulatory sites made using statistical models currently stored in Tractor_DB, and increase the number of transcriptional regulators with predicted binding sites up to 86. All these computational predictions may be reached at Tractor_DB (www.bioinfo.cu/Tractor_DB, www.tractor.lncc.br, www.ccg.unam.mx/Computational_Genomics/tractorDB/). We also take a first step in this paper towards the assessment of the conservation of the architecture of the regulatory network in the gamma-proteobacteria through evaluating the conservation of the overall connectivity of the network.	2005	Guía, Marylens Hernández; Guía, MH; Guía; Pérez, Abel González; Pérez, AG; Pérez; Angarica, Vladimir Espinosa; Angarica, VE; Angarica; Vasconcelos, Ana T; Vasconcelos, AT; Vasconcelos; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	In Silico Biol
15969646	The network of transcriptional interactions imposes linear constrains in the genome.	Two prokaryotic organisms for which transcriptional regulatory interactions have been well elucidated by experimental means are Escherichia coli and Bacillus subtilis. Here we show, with the help of simulations and from known data, the importance of proximity of the transcription factor gene and the respective regulated gene in regulatory networks. We discuss the importance of the location of external sensing machinery close to the genes for transcription factors that regulate them in light of our finding.	2005	Menchaca-Mendez, Ricardo; Menchaca-Mendez, R; Menchaca-Mendez; Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	OMICS
16090013	Nonlinear software sensor for monitoring genetic regulation processes with noise and modeling errors.	Nonlinear control techniques by means of a software sensor that are commonly used in chemical engineering could be also applied to genetic regulation processes. We provide here a realistic formulation of this procedure by introducing an additive white Gaussian noise, which is usually found in experimental data. Besides, we include model errors, meaning that we assume we do not know the nonlinear regulation function of the process. In order to illustrate this procedure, we employ the Goodwin dynamics of the concentrations [B. C. Goodwin, (Academic, New York, 1963)] in the simple form recently applied to single gene systems and some operon cases [H. De Jong, J. Comput. Biol. 9, 67 (2002)], which involves the dynamics of the mRNA, given protein and metabolite concentrations. Further, we present results for a three gene case in coregulated sets of transcription units as they occur in prokaryotes. However, instead of considering their full dynamics, we use only the data of the metabolites and a designed software sensor. We also show, more generally, that it is possible to rebuild the complete set of nonmeasured concentrations despite the uncertainties in the regulation function or, even more, in the case of not knowing the mRNA dynamics. In addition, the rebuilding of concentrations is not affected by the perturbation due to the additive white Gaussian noise and also we managed to filter the noisy output of the biological system.	2005 Jul	Ibarra-Junquera, V; Ibarra-Junquera, V; Ibarra-Junquera; Torres, L A; Torres, LA; Torres; Rosu, H C; Rosu, HC; Rosu; Argüello, G; Argüello, G; Argüello; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys
15937174	Gene conversion tracts associated with crossovers in Rhizobium etli.	Gene conversion has been defined as the nonreciprocal transfer of information between homologous sequences. Despite its broad interest for genome evolution, the occurrence of this mechanism in bacteria has been difficult to ascertain due to the possible occurrence of multiple crossover events that would mimic gene conversion. In this work, we employ a novel system, based on cointegrate formation, to isolate gene conversion events associated with crossovers in the nitrogen-fixing bacterium Rhizobium etli. In this system, selection is applied only for cointegrate formation, with gene conversions being detected as unselected events. This minimizes the likelihood of multiple crossovers. To track the extent and architecture of gene conversions, evenly spaced nucleotide changes were made in one of the nitrogenase structural genes (nifH), introducing unique sites for different restriction endonucleases. Our results show that (i) crossover events were almost invariably accompanied by a gene conversion event occurring nearby; (ii) gene conversion events ranged in size from 150 bp to 800 bp; (iii) gene conversion events displayed a strong bias, favoring the preservation of incoming sequences; (iv) even small amounts of sequence divergence had a strong effect on recombination frequency; and (v) the MutS mismatch repair system plays an important role in determining the length of gene conversion segments. A detailed analysis of the architecture of the conversion events suggests that multiple crossovers are an unlikely alternative for their generation. Our results are better explained as the product of true gene conversions occurring under the double-strand break repair model for recombination.	2005 Jun	Santoyo, Gustavo; Santoyo, G; Santoyo; Martínez-Salazar, Jaime M; Martínez-Salazar, JM; Martínez-Salazar; Rodríguez, César; Rodríguez, C; Rodríguez; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero	J Bacteriol
15899401	Biotin biosynthesis, transport and utilization in rhizobia.	Biotin, a B-group vitamin, performs an essential metabolic function in all organisms. Rhizobia are alpha-proteobacteria with the remarkable ability to form a nitrogen-fixing symbiosis in combination with a compatible legume host, a process in which the importance of biotin biosynthesis and/or transport has been demonstrated for some rhizobia-legume combinations. Rhizobia have also been used to delimit the biosynthesis, metabolic effects and, more recently, transport of biotin. Molecular genetic analysis shows that an orthodox biotin biosynthesis pathway occurs in some rhizobia while others appear to synthesize the vitamin using alternative pathways. In addition to its well established function as a prosthetic group for biotin-dependent carboxylases, we are beginning to delineate a role for biotin as a metabolic regulator in rhizobia.	2005 May	Guillén-Navarro, Karina; Guillén-Navarro, K; Guillén-Navarro; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn	FEMS Microbiol Lett
15808740	Gene conversion and concerted evolution in bacterial genomes.	Gene conversion is defined as the non-reciprocal transfer of information between homologous sequences. Despite methodological problems to establish non-reciprocity, gene conversion has been demonstrated in a wide variety of bacteria. Besides examples of high-frequency reversion of mutations in repeated genes, gene conversion in bacterial genomes has been implicated in concerted evolution of multigene families. Gene conversion also has a prime importance in the generation of antigenic variation, an interesting mechanism whereby some bacterial pathogens are able to avoid the host immune system. In this review, we analyze examples of bacterial gene conversion (some of them spawned from the current genomic revolution), as well as the molecular models that explain gene conversion and its association with crossovers.	2005 Apr	Santoyo, Gustavo; Santoyo, G; Santoyo; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero	FEMS Microbiol Rev
15900973	Natural association of Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus and diazotrophic Acetobacter peroxydans with wetland rice.	The family Acetobacteraceae currently includes three known nitrogen-fixing species, Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus, G. johannae and G. azotocaptans. In the present study, acetic acid-producing nitrogen-fixing bacteria were isolated from four different wetland rice varieties cultivated in the state of Tamilnadu, India. Most of these isolates were identified as G. diazotrophicus on the basis of their phenotypic characteristics and PCR assays using specific primers for that species. Based on 16S rDNA partial sequence analysis and DNA: DNA reassociation experiments the remaining isolates were identified as Acetobacter peroxydans, another species of the Acetobacteraceae family, thus far never reported as diazotrophic. The presence of nifH genes in A. peroxydans was confirmed by PCR amplification with nifH specific primers. Scope for the findings: This is the first report of the occurrence and association of N2-fixing Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus and Acetobacter peroxydans with wetland rice varieties. This is the first report of diazotrophic nature of A. peroxydans.	2005 Apr	Muthukumarasamy, Ramachandran; Muthukumarasamy, R; Muthukumarasamy; Cleenwerck, Ilse; Cleenwerck, I; Cleenwerck; Revathi, Gopalakrishnan; Revathi, G; Revathi; Vadivelu, Muthaiyan; Vadivelu, M; Vadivelu; Janssens, D; Janssens, D; Janssens; Hoste, B; Hoste, B; Hoste; Gum, Kang Ui; Gum, KU; Gum; Park, Ki-Do; Park, KD; Park; Son, Cho Young; Son, CY; Son; Sa, Tongmin; Sa, T; Sa; Caballero-Mellado, Jesus; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	Syst Appl Microbiol
15824284	Sequencing and analysis of common bean ESTs. Building a foundation for functional genomics.	Although common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) is the most important grain legume in the developing world for human consumption, few genomic resources exist for this species. The objectives of this research were to develop expressed sequence tag (EST) resources for common bean and assess nodule gene expression through high-density macroarrays. We sequenced a total of 21,026 ESTs derived from 5 different cDNA libraries, including nitrogen-fixing root nodules, phosphorus-deficient roots, developing pods, and leaves of the Mesoamerican genotype, Negro Jamapa 81. The fifth source of ESTs was a leaf cDNA library derived from the Andean genotype, G19833. Of the total high-quality sequences, 5,703 ESTs were classified as singletons, while 10,078 were assembled into 2,226 contigs producing a nonredundant set of 7,969 different transcripts. Sequences were grouped according to 4 main categories, metabolism (34%), cell cycle and plant development (11%), interaction with the environment (19%), and unknown function (36%), and further subdivided into 15 subcategories. Comparisons to other legume EST projects suggest that an entirely different repertoire of genes is expressed in common bean nodules. Phaseolus-specific contigs, gene families, and single nucleotide polymorphisms were also identified from the EST collection. Functional aspects of individual bean organs were reflected by the 20 contigs from each library composed of the most redundant ESTs. The abundance of transcripts corresponding to selected contigs was evaluated by RNA blots to determine whether gene expression determined by laboratory methods correlated with in silico expression. Evaluation of root nodule gene expression by macroarrays and RNA blots showed that genes related to nitrogen and carbon metabolism are integrated for ureide production. Resources developed in this project provide genetic and genomic tools for an international consortium devoted to bean improvement.	2005 Apr	Ramírez, Mario; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Graham, Michelle A; Graham, MA; Graham; Blanco-López, Lourdes; Blanco-López, L; Blanco-López; Silvente, Sonia; Silvente, S; Silvente; Medrano-Soto, Arturo; Medrano-Soto, A; Medrano-Soto; Blair, Matthew W; Blair, MW; Blair; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Vance, Carroll P; Vance, CP; Vance; Lara, Miguel; Lara, M; Lara	Plant Physiol
15774626	Bradyrhizobium canariense sp. nov., an acid-tolerant endosymbiont that nodulates endemic genistoid legumes (Papilionoideae: Genisteae) from the Canary Islands, along with Bradyrhizobium japonicum bv. genistearum, Bradyrhizobium genospecies alpha and Bradyrhizobium genospecies beta.	Highly diverse Bradyrhizobium strains nodulate genistoid legumes (brooms) in the Canary Islands, Morocco, Spain and the Americas. Phylogenetic analyses of ITS, atpD, glnII and recA sequences revealed that these isolates represent at least four distinct evolutionary lineages within the genus, namely Bradyrhizobium japonicum and three unnamed genospecies. DNA-DNA hybridization experiments confirmed that one of the latter represents a new taxonomic species for which the name Bradyrhizobium canariense is proposed. B. canariense populations experience homologous recombination at housekeeping loci, but are sexually isolated from sympatric B. japonicum bv. genistearum strains in soils of the Canary Islands. B. canariense strains are highly acid-tolerant, nodulate diverse legumes in the tribes Genisteae and Loteae, but not Glycine species, whereas acid-sensitive B. japonicum soybean isolates such as USDA 6(T) and USDA 110 do not nodulate genistoid legumes. Based on host-range experiments and phylogenetic analyses of symbiotic nifH and nodC sequences, the biovarieties genistearum and glycinearum for the genistoid legume and soybean isolates, respectively, were proposed. B. canariense bv. genistearum strains display an overlapped host range with B. japonicum bv. genistearum isolates, both sharing monophyletic nifH and nodC alleles, possibly due to the lateral transfer of a conjugative chromosomal symbiotic island across species. B. canariense is the sister species of B. japonicum, as inferred from a maximum-likelihood Bradyrhizobium species phylogeny estimated from congruent glnII+recA sequence partitions, which resolves eight species clades. In addition to the currently described species, this phylogeny uncovered the novel Bradyrhizobium genospecies alpha and beta and the photosynthetic strains as independent evolutionary lineages. The type strain for B. canariense is BTA-1(T) (=ATCC BAA-1002(T)=LMG 22265(T)=CFNE 1008(T)).	2005 Mar	Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; León-Barrios, Milagros; León-Barrios, M; León-Barrios; Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva; Willems, Anne; Willems, A; Willems; Jarabo-Lorenzo, Adriana; Jarabo-Lorenzo, A; Jarabo-Lorenzo; Pérez-Galdona, Ricardo; Pérez-Galdona, R; Pérez-Galdona; Werner, Dietrich; Werner, D; Werner; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
15667294	Function of the Rhizobium etli CFN42 nirK gene in nitrite metabolism.	Rhizobium etli CFN42 is not capable of growing anaerobically with nitrate but it grows with nitrite as a terminal electron acceptor. This bacterium contains the nirK gene encoding the copper-containing Nir (nitrite reductase), which is located on the cryptic plasmid pCFN42f. Mutational analysis has demonstrated that a nirK deficient mutant was not capable of growing under nitrite-respiring conditions. Moreover, microaerobic growth of this mutant was inhibited by the presence of nitrite. Nir activity and nitrite uptake were highly diminished in a nirK mutant, compared with the wild-type levels after incubation under anaerobic conditions. Our results suggest that the copper-containing Nir may have both a respiratory and a nitrite-detoxifying role in R. etli.	2005 Feb	Bueno, E; Bueno, E; Bueno; Gómez-Hernández, N; Gómez-Hernández, N; Gómez-Hernández; Girard, L; Girard, L; Girard; Bedmar, E J; Bedmar, EJ; Bedmar; Delgado, M J; Delgado, MJ; Delgado	Biochem Soc Trans
15608210	EcoCyc: a comprehensive database resource for Escherichia coli.	The EcoCyc database (http://EcoCyc.org/) is a comprehensive source of information on the biology of the prototypical model organism Escherichia coli K12. The mission for EcoCyc is to contain both computable descriptions of, and detailed comments describing, all genes, proteins, pathways and molecular interactions in E.coli. Through ongoing manual curation, extensive information such as summary comments, regulatory information, literature citations and evidence types has been extracted from 8862 publications and added to Version 8.5 of the EcoCyc database. The EcoCyc database can be accessed through a World Wide Web interface, while the downloadable Pathway Tools software and data files enable computational exploration of the data and provide enhanced querying capabilities that web interfaces cannot support. For example, EcoCyc contains carefully curated information that can be used as training sets for bioinformatics prediction of entities such as promoters, operons, genetic networks, transcription factor binding sites, metabolic pathways, functionally related genes, protein complexes and protein-ligand interactions.	2005 Jan	Keseler, Ingrid M; Keseler, IM; Keseler; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Ingraham, John; Ingraham, J; Ingraham; Paley, Suzanne; Paley, S; Paley; Paulsen, Ian T; Paulsen, IT; Paulsen; Peralta-Gil, Martín; Peralta-Gil, M; Peralta-Gil; Karp, Peter D; Karp, PD; Karp	Nucleic Acids Res
17061545	[Evolution and phylogeny of rhizobia].	Nitrogen fixation an ancient process that may is have originated in the archaean Eon under the primitive atmosphere anoxygenic conditions. Diazotrophy is an exclusive process of prokaryotes, only Euryarchaeota and 6 of 54 Bacteria phyla have diazotrophs lineages. Some of them coevolved with flowering plants for the establishment of molecular bases of a mutualistic symbiosis relationship. In rhizobia, the nitrogen fixation occurs inside the nodules, special structures on the roots or stems of legumes. Nodule organogenesis starts with the bacterial nodulation factors (Nod factors) codified in large plasmids or symbiotic islands in the bacterial genomes. Nodulation genes had more recent origin than the nitrogen fixation ones because the origin of the nod gene is associated with the origin of the hosts. The 16S rRNA phylogeny groups rhizobia in 7 genuses of the alpha-Proteobacteria: Bradyrhizobium, Mesorhizobium, Rhizobium, Sinorhizobium, Methylobacterium and Devosia, and two genuses recently described in f-Proteobacteria: Burkholderia and Wautersia. The phylogenies obtained with other chromosomal genes are similar at the genus level, but it is incongruent with the symbiotic gene (nif & nod) phylogeny, because horizontal gene transfer has allowed their evolution in function to the legume host fitness.	2005 Jan-Jun	Lloret, Lourdes; Lloret, L; Lloret; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Rev Latinoam Microbiol
15680508	Modular analysis of the transcriptional regulatory network of E. coli.	The transcriptional network of Escherichia coli is currently the best-understood regulatory network of a single cell. Motivated by statistical evidence, suggesting a hierarchical modular architecture in this network, we identified eight modules with well-defined physiological functions. These modules were identified by a clustering approach, using the shortest path to trace regulatory relationships across genes in the network. We report the type (feed forward and bifan) and distribution of motifs between and within modules. Feed-forward motifs tend to be embedded within modules, whereas bi-fan motifs tend to link modules, supporting the notion of a hierarchical network with defined functional modules.	2005 Jan	Resendis-Antonio, Osbaldo; Resendis-Antonio, O; Resendis-Antonio; Freyre-González, Julio A; Freyre-González, JA; Freyre-González; Menchaca-Méndez, Ricardo; Menchaca-Méndez, R; Menchaca-Méndez; Gutiérrez-Ríos, Rosa M; Gutiérrez-Ríos, RM; Gutiérrez-Ríos; Martínez-Antonio, Agustino; Martínez-Antonio, A; Martínez-Antonio; Avila-Sánchez, Cristhian; Avila-Sánchez, C; Avila-Sánchez; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Trends Genet
15640222	Non-Frankia actinomycetes isolated from surface-sterilized roots of Casuarina equisetifolia fix nitrogen.	Based on partial 16S sequences, we previously described a novel group of nonsymbiotic, acetylene reduction activity-positive actinomycetes which were isolated from surface-sterilized roots of Casuarina equisetifolia growing in Mexico. An amplified rRNA restriction analysis confirmed that these actinomycetes are distinct from Frankia, a finding substantiated by a 16S rRNA gene phylogenetic analysis of two of the Mexican isolates. Further support for these actinomycetes being separate from Frankia comes from the very low DNA-DNA homology that was found. Nevertheless, the Mexican isolates may be diazotrophs based not only on their ability to grow in N-free medium and reduce acetylene to ethylene but also on the results from (15)N isotope dilution analysis and the finding that a nifH gene was PCR amplified. A comparison of the nifH sequences from the various isolates showed that they are closely related to nifH from Frankia; the similarity was 84 to 98% depending on the host specificity group. An analysis of complete 16S rRNA gene sequences demonstrated that the two strains analyzed in detail are most closely related to actinobacteria in the Thermomonosporaceae and the Micromonosporaceae.	2005 Jan	Valdés, María; Valdés, M; Valdés; Pérez, Néstor-Octavio; Pérez, NO; Pérez; Estrada-de Los Santos, Paulina; Estrada-de Los Santos, P; Estrada-de Los Santos; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Peña-Cabriales, Juan José; Peña-Cabriales, JJ; Peña-Cabriales; Normand, Philippe; Normand, P; Normand; Hirsch, Ann M; Hirsch, AM; Hirsch	Appl Environ Microbiol
15579380	Population genetics and phylogenetic inference in bacterial molecular systematics: the roles of migration and recombination in Bradyrhizobium species cohesion and delineation.	A combination of population genetics and phylogenetic inference methods was used to delineate Bradyrhizobium species and to uncover the evolutionary forces acting at the population-species interface of this bacterial genus. Maximum-likelihood gene trees for atpD, glnII, recA, and nifH loci were estimated for diverse strains from all but one of the named Bradyrhizobium species, and three unnamed "genospecies," including photosynthetic isolates. Topological congruence and split decomposition analyses of the three housekeeping loci are consistent with a model of frequent homologous recombination within but not across lineages, whereas strong evidence was found for the consistent lateral gene transfer across lineages of the symbiotic (auxiliary) nifH locus, which grouped strains according to their hosts and not by their species assignation. A well resolved Bayesian species phylogeny was estimated from partially congruent glnII+recA sequences, which is highly consistent with the actual taxonomic scheme of the genus. Population-level analyses of isolates from endemic Canarian genistoid legumes based on REP-PCR genomic fingerprints, allozyme and DNA polymorphism analyses revealed a non-clonal and slightly epidemic population structure for B. canariense isolates of Canarian and Moroccan origin, uncovered recombination and migration as significant evolutionary forces providing the species with internal cohesiveness, and demonstrated its significant genetic differentiation from B. japonicum, its sister species, despite their sympatry and partially overlapped ecological niches. This finding provides strong evidence for the existence of well delineated species in the bacterial world. The results and approaches used herein are discussed in the context of bacterial species concepts and the evolutionary ecology of (brady)rhizobia.	2005 Jan	Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva; Werner, Dietrich; Werner, D; Werner; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Mol Phylogenet Evol
15608293	TRACTOR_DB: a database of regulatory networks in gamma-proteobacterial genomes.	Experimental data on the Escherichia coli transcriptional regulatory system has been used in the past years to predict new regulatory elements (promoters, transcription factors (TFs), TFs' binding sites and operons) within its genome. As more genomes of gamma-proteobacteria are being sequenced, the prediction of these elements in a growing number of organisms has become more feasible, as a step towards the study of how different bacteria respond to environmental changes at the level of transcriptional regulation. In this work, we present TRACTOR_DB (TRAnscription FaCTORs' predicted binding sites in prokaryotic genomes), a relational database that contains computational predictions of new members of 74 regulons in 17 gamma-proteobacterial genomes. For these predictions we used a comparative genomics approach regarding which several proof-of-principle articles for large regulons have been published. TRACTOR_DB may be currently accessed at http://www.bioinfo.cu/Tractor_DB, http://www.tractor.lncc.br/ or at http://www.cifn.unam.mx/Computational_Genomics/tractorDB. Contact Email id is tractor@cifn.unam.mx.	2005 Jan	González, Abel D; González, AD; González; Espinosa, Vladimir; Espinosa, V; Espinosa; Vasconcelos, Ana T; Vasconcelos, AT; Vasconcelos; Pérez-Rueda, Ernesto; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
15666246	How are gene sequence analyses modifying bacterial taxonomy? The case of Klebsiella.	Bacterial names are continually being changed in order to more adequately describe natural groups (the units of microbial diversity) and their relationships. The problems in Klebsiella taxonomy are illustrative and common to other bacterial genera. Like other bacteria, Klebsiella spp. were isolated long ago, when methods to identify and classify bacteria were limited. However, recently developed molecular approaches have led to taxonomical revisions in several cases or to sound proposals of novel species.	2004 Dec	Martínez, Julio; Martínez, J; Martínez; Martínez, Lucía; Martínez, L; Martínez; Rosenblueth, Monica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Silva, Jesús; Silva, J; Silva; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Int Microbiol
15556475	Phylogenetic distribution of DNA-binding transcription factors in bacteria and archaea.	We have addressed the distribution and abundance of 75 transcription factor (TF) families in complete genomes from 90 different bacterial and archaeal species. We found that the proportion of TFs increases with genome size. The deficit of TFs in some genomes might be compensated by the presence of proteins organizing and compacting DNA, such as histone-like proteins. Nine families are represented in all the bacteria and archaea we analyzed, whereas 17 families are specific to bacteria, providing evidence for regulon specialization at an early stage of evolution between the bacterial and archeal lineages. Ten of the 17 families identified in bacteria belong exclusively to the proteobacteria defining a specific signature for this taxonomical group. In bacteria, 10 families are lost mostly in intracellular pathogens and endosymbionts, while 9 families seem to have been horizontally transferred to archaea. The winged helix-turn-helix (HTH) is by far the most abundant structure (motif) in prokaryotes, and might have been the earliest HTH motif to appear as shown by its distribution and abundance in both bacterial and archaeal cellular domains. Horizontal gene transfer and lineage-specific gene losses suggest a progressive elimination of TFs in the course of archaeal and bacterial evolution. This analysis provides a framework for discussing the selective forces directing the evolution of the transcriptional machinery in prokaryotes.	2004 Dec	Pérez-Rueda, Ernesto; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Segovia, Lorenzo; Segovia, L; Segovia	Comput Biol Chem
15547262	The recombination genes addAB are not restricted to gram-positive bacteria: genetic analysis of the recombination initiation enzymes RecF and AddAB in Rhizobium etli.	Single-strand gaps (SSGs) and double-strand breaks (DSBs) are the major initiation sites for recombination. In bacteria, the SSGs are repaired by RecFOR, while the DSBs are processed by RecBCD in gram-negative bacteria and AddAB in gram-positive bacteria. Unexpectedly, instead of recBCD genes, the addAB genes were found in members of the alpha-proteobacteria group (gram negative). Taking Rhizobium etli as a model, the role of recF and addAB genes in homologous recombination and repair of damaged DNA was evaluated. Inactivation of either recF or addA provoked strong sensitivity to UV radiation and mitomycin C, while an additive effect was observed in the recF-addA mutant. The DSBs generated by nalidixic acid caused low viability only in the addA mutant. The recombination frequency of large and small plasmids was reduced in the recF mutant (24- and 36-fold, respectively), whereas a slight decrease (threefold) in the addA mutant was observed. Moreover, an additive effect (47- and 90-fold, respectively) was observed in the double mutant, but it was not as dramatic as that in a recA mutant. Interestingly, the frequency of deletion and Campbell-type recombination was slightly affected in either single or double mutants. These results suggest that another pathway exists that allows plasmid and Campbell-type recombination in the absence of recF and addA genes.	2004 Dec	Zuñiga-Castillo, Jacobo; Zuñiga-Castillo, J; Zuñiga-Castillo; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Martínez-Salazar, Jaime M; Martínez-Salazar, JM; Martínez-Salazar	J Bacteriol
15554980	Two discrete elements are required for the replication of a repABC plasmid: an antisense RNA and a stem-loop structure.	The repABC replicons contain an operon encoding the initiator protein (RepC) and partitioning proteins (RepA and RepB). The latter two proteins negatively regulate the transcription of the operon. In this article we have identified two novel regulatory elements, located within the conserved repB-repC intergenic sequence, which negatively modulate the expression of repC, in plasmid p42d of Rhizobium etli. One of them is a small antisense RNA and the other is a stem-loop structure in the repABC mRNA that occludes the Shine-Dalgarno sequence of repC. According to in vivo and in vitro analyses, the small antisense RNA (57-59 nt) resembles canonical negative regulators of replication because: (i) it is transcribed from a strong constitutive promoter (P2), (ii) the transcript overlaps untranslated region upstream of the RepC coding sequences, (iii) the RNA forms one secondary structure acting as a rho-independent terminator, (iv) the antisense RNA is a strong trans-incompatibility factor and (v) its presence reduces the level of repC expression. Surprisingly, both of these seemingly negative regulators are required for efficient plasmid replication.	2004 Dec	Venkova-Canova, Tatiana; Venkova-Canova, T; Venkova-Canova; Soberón, Nora E; Soberón, NE; Soberón; Ramírez-Romero, Miguel A; Ramírez-Romero, MA; Ramírez-Romero; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	Mol Microbiol
15545451	Burkholderia tropica sp. nov., a novel nitrogen-fixing, plant-associated bacterium.	In an ecological survey of nitrogen-fixing bacteria isolated from the rhizosphere and as endophytes of sugarcane, maize and teosinte plants in Brazil, Mexico and South Africa, a new phylogenetically homogeneous group of N(2)-fixing bacteria was identified within the genus Burkholderia. This polyphasic taxonomic study included microscopic and colony morphology, API 20NE tests and growth on different culture media at different pH and temperatures, as well as carbon source assimilation tests and whole-cell protein pattern analysis. Analysis of 16S rRNA gene sequences showed 99.2-99.9 % similarity within the novel species and 97.2 % similarity to the closest related species, Burkholderia sacchari. The novel species was composed of four distinct amplified 16S rDNA restriction analysis groups. The DNA-DNA reassociation values within the novel species were greater than 70 % and less than 42 % for the closest related species, B. sacchari. Based on these results and on many phenotypic characteristics, a novel N(2)-fixing species is proposed for the genus Burkholderia, Burkholderia tropica sp. nov., with the type strain Ppe8(T) (=ATCC BAA-831(T)=LMG 22274(T)=DSM 15359(T)). B. tropica was isolated from plants grown in geographical regions with climates ranging from temperate subhumid to hot humid.	2004 Nov	Reis, V M; Reis, VM; Reis; Santos, P Estrada-de Los; Santos, PEL; Santos; Tenorio-Salgado, S; Tenorio-Salgado, S; Tenorio-Salgado; Vogel, J; Vogel, J; Vogel; Stoffels, M; Stoffels, M; Stoffels; Guyon, S; Guyon, S; Guyon; Mavingui, P; Mavingui, P; Mavingui; Baldani, V L D; Baldani, VLD; Baldani; Schmid, M; Schmid, M; Schmid; Baldani, J I; Baldani, JI; Baldani; Balandreau, J; Balandreau, J; Balandreau; Hartmann, A; Hartmann, A; Hartmann; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
15612628	Phylogenetic relationships of rhizobia based on citrate synthase gene sequences.	Partial nucleotide sequences of the citrate synthase (gltA) gene from different rhizobia genera were determined. Tree topologies based on this housekeeping gene were similar to that obtained using 16S rRNA sequences. However gltA appeared to be more reliable at determining phylogenetic relationships of closely related taxa. We propose gltA sequences as an additional tool to be used in molecular phylogenetic studies.	2004 Nov	Hernández-Lucas, Ismael; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Rogel-Hernández, Marco Antonio; Rogel-Hernández, MA; Rogel-Hernández; Segovia, Lorenzo; Segovia, L; Segovia; Rojas-Jiménez, Keilor; Rojas-Jiménez, K; Rojas-Jiménez; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
15516565	Transfer of the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium etli CFN42 requires cointegration with p42a, which may be mediated by site-specific recombination.	Plasmid p42a from Rhizobium etli CFN42 is self-transmissible and indispensable for conjugative transfer of the symbiotic plasmid (pSym). Most pSym transconjugants also inherit p42a. pSym transconjugants that lack p42a always contain recombinant pSyms, which we designated RpSyms*. RpSyms* do not contain some pSym segments and instead have p42a sequences, including the replication and transfer regions. These novel recombinant plasmids are compatible with wild-type pSym, incompatible with p42a, and self-transmissible. The symbiotic features of derivatives simultaneously containing a wild-type pSym and an RpSym* were analyzed. Structural analysis of 10 RpSyms* showed that 7 shared one of the two pSym-p42a junctions. Sequencing of this common junction revealed a 53-bp region that was 90% identical in pSym and p42a, including a 5-bp central region flanked by 9- to 11-bp inverted repeats reminiscent of bacterial and phage attachment sites. A gene encoding an integrase-like protein (intA) was localized downstream of the attachment site on p42a. Mutation or the absence of intA abolished pSym transfer from a recA mutant donor. Complementation with the wild-type intA gene restored transfer of pSym. We propose that pSym-p42a cointegration is required for pSym transfer; cointegration may be achieved either through homologous recombination among large reiterated sequences or through IntA-mediated site-specific recombination between the attachment sites. Cointegrates formed through the site-specific system but resolved through RecA-dependent recombination or vice versa generate RpSyms*. A site-specific recombination system for plasmid cointegration is a novel feature of these large plasmids and implies that there is unique regulation which affects the distribution of pSym in nature due to the role of the cointegrate in conjugative transfer.	2004 Nov	Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Tun-Garrido, Cristina; Tun-Garrido, C; Tun-Garrido; García-de los Santos, Alejandro; García-de los Santos, A; García-de los Santos; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero	J Bacteriol
15240837	Successful lateral transfer requires codon usage compatibility between foreign genes and recipient genomes.	We present evidence supporting the notion that codon usage (CU) compatibility between foreign genes and recipient genomes is an important prerequisite to assess the selective advantage of imported functions, and therefore to increase the fixation probability of horizontal gene transfer (HGT) events. This contrasts with the current tendency in research to predict recent HGTs in prokaryotes by assuming that acquired genes generally display poor CU. By looking at the CU level (poor, typical, or rich) exhibited by putative xenologs still resembling their original CU, we found that most alien genes predominantly present typical CU immediately upon introgression, thereby suggesting that the role of CU amelioration in HGT has been overemphasized. In our strategy, we first scanned a representative set of 103 complete prokaryotic genomes for all pairs of candidate xenologs (exported/imported genes) displaying similar CU. We applied additional filtering criteria, including phylogenetic validations, to enhance the reliability of our predictions. Our approach makes no assumptions about the CU of foreign genes being typical or atypical within the recipient genome, thus providing a novel unbiased framework to study the evolutionary dynamics of HGT.	2004 Oct	Medrano-Soto, Arturo; Medrano-Soto, A; Medrano-Soto; Moreno-Hagelsieb, Gabriel; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Christen, J Andrés; Christen, JA; Christen; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Mol Biol Evol
15388727	Classification of the biphenyl- and polychlorinated biphenyl-degrading strain LB400T and relatives as Burkholderia xenovorans sp. nov.	Strain LB400T is the best-studied polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) degrader. This organism has previously been allocated in the genus Burkholderia, since its 16S rRNA gene sequence shows 98.6 % sequence similarity to the type strains of Burkholderia graminis and Burkholderia terricola. A polyphasic study was undertaken to clarify the actual taxonomic position of this biotechnologically important organism and of two strains, one recovered from a blood culture vial and one from a coffee plant rhizosphere, both of which resembled strain LB400T in their whole-cell protein patterns. DNA-DNA hybridization experiments revealed that the three strains represented a single novel species, for which the name Burkholderia xenovorans sp. nov. is proposed. Strains of this novel species can be differentiated phenotypically from nearly all other Burkholderia species by their inability to assimilate L-arabinose. The whole-cell fatty acid profile of B. xenovorans strains is consistent with their classification in the genus Burkholderia, with 18 : 1omega7c, 16 : 1omega7c, 16 : 0, 14 : 0 3OH, 16 : 0 3OH, 17 : 0 cyclo and 14 : 0 being the most abundant fatty acids. The G + C content of the species varies between 62.4 and 62.9 mol%. The type strain of B. xenovorans is LB400T (= LMG 21463T = CCUG 46959T = NRRL B-18064T).	2004 Sep	Goris, Johan; Goris, J; Goris; De Vos, Paul; De Vos, P; De Vos; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Park, Joonhong; Park, J; Park; Falsen, Enevold; Falsen, E; Falsen; Quensen, John F; Quensen, JF; Quensen; Tiedje, James M; Tiedje, JM; Tiedje; Vandamme, Peter; Vandamme, P; Vandamme	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
15341653	Identification of a gene required for the formation of lyso-ornithine lipid, an intermediate in the biosynthesis of ornithine-containing lipids.	Under phosphate-limiting conditions, some bacteria replace their membrane phospholipids by lipids not containing any phosphorus. One of these phosphorus-free lipids is an ornithine-containing lipid (OL) that is widespread among eubacteria. In earlier work, we had identified a gene (olsA) required for OL biosynthesis that probably encodes an O-acyltransferase using acyl-acyl carrier protein (acyl-AcpP) as an acyl donor and that converts lyso-ornithine lipid into OL. We now report on a second gene (olsB) required for OL biosynthesis that is needed for the incorporation of radiolabelled ornithine into OL. Overexpression of OlsB in an olsA-deficient mutant of Sinorhizobium (Rhizobium) meliloti leads to the transient accumulation of lyso-ornithine lipid, the biosynthetic intermediate of OL biosynthesis. Overexpression of OlsB in Escherichia coli is sufficient to cause the in vivo formation of lyso-ornithine lipid in this organism and is the cause for a 3-hydroxyacyl-AcpP-dependent acyltransferase activity forming lyso-ornithine lipid from ornithine. These results demonstrate that OlsB is required for the first step of OL biosynthesis, in which ornithine is N-acylated with a 3-hydroxy-fatty acyl residue in order to obtain lyso-ornithine lipid. OL formation in a wild-type S. meliloti is increased upon growth under phosphate-limiting conditions. Expression of OlsB from a broad host range vector leads to the constitutive formation of relatively high amounts of OL (12-14% of total membrane lipids) independently of whether strains are grown in the presence of low or high concentrations of phosphate, suggesting that in S. meliloti the formation of OlsB is usually limiting for the amount of OL formed in this organism. Open reading frames homologous to OlsA and OlsB were identified in many eubacteria and although in S. meliloti the olsB and olsA gene are 14 kb apart, in numerous other bacteria they form an operon.	2004 Sep	Gao, Jun-Lian; Gao, JL; Gao; Weissenmayer, Barbara; Weissenmayer, B; Weissenmayer; Taylor, Adrian M; Taylor, AM; Taylor; Thomas-Oates, Jane; Thomas-Oates, J; Thomas-Oates; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	Mol Microbiol
15317780	Identification of functional mob regions in Rhizobium etli: evidence for self-transmissibility of the symbiotic plasmid pRetCFN42d.	An approach originally designed to identify functional origins of conjugative transfer (oriT or mob) in a bacterial genome (J. A. Herrera-Cervera, J. M. Sanjuán-Pinilla, J. Olivares, and J. Sanjuán, J. Bacteriol. 180:4583-4590, 1998) was modified to improve its reliability and prevent selection of undesired false mob clones. By following this modified approach, we were able to identify two functional mob regions in the genome of Rhizobium etli CFN42. One corresponds to the recently characterized transfer region of the nonsymbiotic, self-transmissible plasmid pRetCFN42a (C. Tun-Garrido, P. Bustos, V. González, and S. Brom, J. Bacteriol. 185:1681-1692, 2003), whereas the second mob region belongs to the symbiotic plasmid pRetCFN42d. The new transfer region identified contains a putative oriT and a typical conjugative (tra) gene cluster organization. Although pRetCFN42d had not previously been shown to be self-transmissible, mobilization of cosmids containing this tra region required the presence of a wild-type pRetCFN42d in the donor cell; the presence of multiple copies of this mob region in CFN42 also promoted conjugal transfer of the Sym plasmid pRetCFN42d. The overexpression of a small open reading frame, named yp028, located downstream of the putative relaxase gene traA, appeared to be responsible for promoting the conjugal transfer of the R. etli pSym under laboratory conditions. This yp028-dependent conjugal transfer required a wild-type pRetCFN42d traA gene. Our results suggest for the first time that the R. etli symbiotic plasmid is self-transmissible and that its transfer is subject to regulation. In wild-type CFN42, pRetCFN42d tra gene expression appears to be insufficient to promote plasmid transfer under standard laboratory conditions; gene yp028 may play some role in the activation of conjugal transfer in response to as-yet-unknown environmental conditions.	2004 Sep	Pérez-Mendoza, Daniel; Pérez-Mendoza, D; Pérez-Mendoza; Domínguez-Ferreras, Ana; Domínguez-Ferreras, A; Domínguez-Ferreras; Muñoz, Socorro; Muñoz, S; Muñoz; Soto, María José; Soto, MJ; Soto; Olivares, José; Olivares, J; Olivares; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Herrera-Cervera, José A; Herrera-Cervera, JA; Herrera-Cervera; Sanjuán, Juan; Sanjuán, J; Sanjuán	J Bacteriol
19712296	Sequence based data supports a single Nostoc strain in individual coralloid roots of cycads.	The genetic diversity of cyanobacteria associated with cycads was examined using the tRNA(Leu) (UAA) intron as a genetic marker. Coralloid roots of both natural populations of the cycad Macrozamia riedlei (Fischer ex Gaudichaud-Beaupré) C.A. Gardner growing in Perth, Australia and cycads growing in greenhouses, also in Perth, were used and their respective cyanobionts analyzed. Several Nostoc strains were found to be involved in this symbiosis, both in natural populations and greenhouse-originated cycads. However, only one strain was present in individual coralloid roots and in individual plants, even when analyzing different coralloid roots from the same plant. Moreover, when examining plants growing close to each other (female plants and their respective offspring) the same cyanobacterium was consistently present in the different coralloid roots. Whether this reflects a selective mechanisms or merely the availability of Nostoc strains remains to be ascertained. The high cyanobacterial diversity in coralloid roots of cycads revealed by PCR fingerprinting is, therefore, contested. In this study, the potential problems of using different methods (e.g., PCR fingerprinting) to study the genetic diversity of symbiotic cyanobacteria, is also addressed.	2004 Sep	Costa, José-Luis; Costa, JL; Costa; Romero, Esperanza Martínez; Romero, EM; Romero; Lindblad, Peter; Lindblad, P; Lindblad	FEMS Microbiol Ecol
15280286	Burkholderia unamae sp. nov., an N2-fixing rhizospheric and endophytic species.	It was shown recently that the genus Burkholderia is rich in N2-fixing bacteria that are associated with plants. A group of these diazotrophic isolates with identical or very similar 16S rDNA restriction patterns [designated amplified rDNA restriction analysis (ARDRA) genotypes 13, 14 and 15] was selected and a polyphasic taxonomic study was performed, which included new isolates that were recovered from rhizospheres, rhizoplanes or internal tissues of maize, sugarcane and coffee plants. Morphological, physiological and biochemical features, as well as multi-locus enzyme electrophoresis profiles and whole-cell protein patterns, of 20 strains were analysed. In addition, analysis of cellular fatty acid profiles, 16S rDNA sequence analysis and DNA-DNA reassociation experiments were performed with representative strains. The taxonomic data indicated that the strains analysed belong to a novel diazotrophic Burkholderia species, for which the name Burkholderia unamae sp. nov. is proposed. Strain MTl-641T (=ATCC BAA-744T=CIP 107921T), isolated from the rhizosphere of maize, was designated as the type strain. B. unamae was found as an endophyte of plants grown in regions with climates ranging from semi-hot subhumid to hot humid, but not from plants grown in regions with semi-hot or hot dry climates. Moreover, B. unamae was isolated from rhizospheres and plants growing in soils with pH values in the range 4.5-7.1, but not from soils with pH values higher than 7.5.	2004 Jul	Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Martínez-Aguilar, Lourdes; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar; Paredes-Valdez, Guadalupe; Paredes-Valdez, G; Paredes-Valdez; Santos, Paulina Estrada-de Los; Santos, PEL; Santos	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
15184121	Engineering the nifH promoter region and abolishing poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate accumulation in Rhizobium etli enhance nitrogen fixation in symbiosis with Phaseolus vulgaris.	Rhizobium etli, as well as some other rhizobia, presents nitrogenase reductase (nifH) gene reiterations. Several R. etli strains studied in this laboratory showed a unique organization and contained two complete nifHDK operons (copies a and b) and a truncated nifHD operon (copy c). Expression analysis of lacZ fusion demonstrated that copies a and b in strain CFN42 are transcribed at lower levels than copy c, although this copy has no discernible role during nitrogen fixation. To increase nitrogenase production, we constructed a chimeric nifHDK operon regulated by the strong nifHc promoter sequence and expressed it in symbiosis with the common bean plant (Phaseolus vulgaris), either cloned on a stably inherited plasmid or incorporated into the symbiotic plasmid (pSym). Compared with the wild-type strain, strains with the nitrogenase overexpression construction assayed in greenhouse experiments had, increased nitrogenase activity (58% on average), increased plant weight (32% on average), increased nitrogen content in plants (15% at 32 days postinoculation), and most importantly, higher seed yield (36% on average), higher nitrogen content (25%), and higher nitrogen yield (72% on average) in seeds. Additionally, expression of the chimeric nifHDK operon in a poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate-negative R. etli strain produced an additive effect in enhancing symbiosis. To our knowledge, this is the first report of increased seed yield and nutritional content in the common bean obtained by using only the genetic material already present in Rhizobium.	2004 Jun	Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Salazar, Emmanuel; Salazar, E; Salazar; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Palacios, Rafael; Palacios, R; Palacios; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	Appl Environ Microbiol
15109827	Incompatibility and the partitioning site of the repABC basic replicon of the symbiotic plasmid from Rhizobium etli.	The basic replicon of the symbiotic plasmid (p42d) of Rhizobium etli CE3 is constituted by the repABC operon. Whereas RepC is essential for plasmid replication, RepA and RepB are involved in plasmid partitioning. Three incompatibility regions have been previously identified in this plasmid: the first one encodes RepA, a partitioning protein that also down-regulates the repABC transcription. The second region is situated within the repB-repC intergenic sequence (inc(alpha)), and the last one, inc(beta), is located in a 502 bp EcoRI fragment spanning the last 72-bp of the coding region of repC and the following downstream sequence. In this paper we show that: (1) The inc(beta) region is required for plasmid partitioning. (2) A 16-bp palindrome sequence, located 40 bp downstream of the repC gene of plasmid p42d, is necessary and sufficient to induce incompatibility towards the parental plasmid, and accounts for all the incompatibility properties of this region (inc(beta)). (3). The palindrome is the DNA target site for RepB binding. With these findings we propose that inc(beta) contains the partitioning site (par site) of the basic replicon of plasmid p42d, and that the 16-bp palindrome is the core sequence to nucleate the RepB binding.	2004 May	Soberón, Nora; Soberón, N; Soberón; Venkova-Canova, Tatiana; Venkova-Canova, T; Venkova-Canova; Ramírez-Romero, Miguel A; Ramírez-Romero, MA; Ramírez-Romero; Téllez-Sosa, Juan; Téllez-Sosa, J; Téllez-Sosa; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	Plasmid
15024554	Rhizobium etli maize populations and their competitiveness for root colonization.	Rhizobium etli, which normally forms nitrogen-fixing nodules on Phaseolus vulgaris (common bean), is a natural maize endophyte. The genetic diversity of R. etli strains from bulk soil, bean nodules, the maize rhizosphere, the maize root, and inside stem tissue in traditional fields where maize is intercropped with P. vulgaris-beans was analyzed. Based on plasmid profiles and alloenzymes, it was determined that several R. etli types were preferentially encountered as putative maize endophytes. Some of these strains from maize were more competitive maize-root colonizers than other R. etli strains from the rhizosphere or from bean nodules. The dominant and highly competitive strain Ch24-10 was the most tolerant to 6-methoxy-2-benzoxazolinone (MBOA), a maize antimicrobial compound that is inhibitory to some bacteria and fungi. The R. tropici strain CIAT899, successfully used as inoculant of P. vulgaris, was also found to be a competitive maize endophyte in inoculation experiments.	2004 May	Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Arch Microbiol
15025998	Proteomics of the venom from the Amazonian scorpion Tityus cambridgei and the role of prolines on mass spectrometry analysis of toxins.	Scorpion venom are complex mixtures of peptides, known to cause impairment of ion-channel function in biological membranes. This report describes the separation of approximately 60 different components by high performance liquid chromatography and the characterization by Edman degradation and mass spectrometry of 26 peptides from the soluble venom of the Amazonian scorpion Tityus cambridgei. One of these peptides, named Tc48a, was fully characterized. It contains 65 amino acid residues, the C-terminal residue is amidated and it affects Na(+)-channels with a K(d) of about 82 nM. Furthermore, this report shows the thermo-instability of scorpion toxins subjected to electron spray ionization-mass spectrometry (ESI-MS). When a proline residue is located near the N-terminal region of the toxin, not stabilized by disulfide bridges, artificial components are generated by the mass spectrometer conditions, due to the cleavage of the peptide bond at the proline positions. This phenomenon was confirmed by using four model proteins (variable regions of immunoglobulins) studied by ESI-MS and matrix assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF)/MS.	2004 Apr	Batista, Cesar V F; Batista, CV; Batista; del Pozo, Luis; del Pozo, L; del Pozo; Zamudio, Fernando Z; Zamudio, FZ; Zamudio; Contreras, Sandra; Contreras, S; Contreras; Becerril, Baltazar; Becerril, B; Becerril; Wanke, Enzo; Wanke, E; Wanke; Possani, Lourival D; Possani, LD; Possani	J Chromatogr B Analyt Technol Biomed Life Sci
15019498	A new method of solution for the occupancy problem and its application to operon size prediction.	The problem of estimating the expected number of transcription units containing a specific number of genes arises in the context of operon size prediction in prokaryotic genomes, where operons are defined to be transcription units containing two or more genes. It turns out that this problem is identical mathematically to the balls in urns occupancy problem in probability theory. In that problem, a fixed number of indistinguishable balls are randomly placed in a known number of distinguishable urns, subject to the restriction that no urns may remain empty, and an estimate is desired for the expected number of urns containing a specific number of balls. In this paper we present a new simple technique for solving the occupancy problem when empty urns are allowed and extend it to the case when each urn must contain the same non-zero minimum number of balls. Treating transcription units as equivalent to urns, and genes as equivalent to balls, we then use that result to solve the problem of estimating the expected number of transcription units that contain a specific number of genes, and then apply that result to predicting the expected number of transcription units present in an entire genome. Since these predictions can be made for any completely sequenced and annotated prokaryotic genome, they provide a starting point for the comparison of regulatory complexity across such genomes.	2004 Apr	Lamboy, W F Warren F; Lamboy, WF; Lamboy; Moreno-Hagelsieb, Gabriel; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb	J Theor Biol
15033534	Distribution of minigenes in the bacteriophage lambda chromosome.	The bar loci in the chromosome of bacteriophage lambda inhibit phage vegetative growth in bacteria defective for peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase (Pth). Expression of the bar regions results in accumulation of peptidyl-tRNA, inhibition of protein synthesis, and arrest of mutant cell growth. These effects have been ascribed to the expression of two-codon ORFs present in translatable sequences named 'minigenes' in the lambda bar regions. To investigate the nature, frequency, and distribution of minigenes in the phage genome, we conducted a survey of their location in lambda DNA. A short-fragment random genomic DNA library was constructed for the identification of clones inhibitory of Pth-defective cells (bar-like phenotype). Three new bar-like minigenes were identified in the library but only one was on the sense strand and it had a rare initiation codon. This result contrasted with the in silico identification of over a hundred putative minigenes using an ad hoc computer program on both strands of lambda DNA. Unlike bar constructs, most of the toxic constructed clones were also toxic to wild-type bacteria, thus suggesting a different inhibition mechanism. Sequence analysis of these cloned inserts showed that they harbored minigenes, mini-ORFs, gene starts, gene ends, or combinations thereof. Our data suggest that minigene-like sequences may, at least partly, account for toxicity in wild-type cells. We propose that clustering of minigenes at gene ends may play a role in gene expression. Other minigenes identified in silico were non-toxic. It is still an open question what the in vivo function of these and toxic minigenes might be.	2004 Mar	Oviedo, Norma-Angélica; Oviedo, NA; Oviedo; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Guarneros, Gabriel; Guarneros, G; Guarneros	Gene
14996797	Phosphatidylethanolamine is not essential for growth of Sinorhizobium meliloti on complex culture media.	In addition to phosphatidylglycerol (PG), cardiolipin (CL), and phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), Sinorhizobium meliloti also possesses phosphatidylcholine (PC) as a major membrane lipid. The biosynthesis of PC in S. meliloti can occur via two different routes, either via the phospholipid N-methylation pathway, in which PE is methylated three times in order to obtain PC, or via the phosphatidylcholine synthase (Pcs) pathway, in which choline is condensed with CDP-diacylglycerol to obtain PC directly. Therefore, for S. meliloti, PC biosynthesis can occur via PE as an intermediate or via a pathway that is independent of PE, offering the opportunity to uncouple PC biosynthesis from PE biosynthesis. In this study, we investigated the first step of PE biosynthesis in S. meliloti catalyzed by phosphatidylserine synthase (PssA). A sinorhizobial mutant lacking PE was complemented with an S. meliloti gene bank, and the complementing DNA was sequenced. The gene coding for the sinorhizobial phosphatidylserine synthase was identified, and it belongs to the type II phosphatidylserine synthases. Inactivation of the sinorhizobial pssA gene leads to the inability to form PE, and such a mutant shows a greater requirement for bivalent cations than the wild type. A sinorhizobial PssA-deficient mutant possesses only PG, CL, and PC as major membrane lipids after growth on complex medium, but it grows nearly as well as the wild type under such conditions. On minimal medium, however, the PE-deficient mutant shows a drastic growth phenotype that can only partly be rescued by choline supplementation. Therefore, although choline permits Pcs-dependent PC formation in the mutant, it does not restore wild-type-like growth in minimal medium, suggesting that it is not only the lack of PC that leads to this drastic growth phenotype.	2004 Mar	Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; de Rudder, Karel E E; de Rudder, KE; de Rudder; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	J Bacteriol
14766918	Biochemical characterization of a Rhizobium etli monovalent cation-stimulated acyl-coenzyme A carboxylase with a high substrate specificity constant for propionyl-coenzyme A.	Biotin has a profound effect on the metabolism of rhizobia. It is reported here that the activities of the biotin-dependent enzymes acetyl-coenzyme A carboxylase (ACC; EC 6.4.1.2) and propionyl-coenzyme A carboxylase (PCC; EC 6.4.1.3) are present in all species of the five genera comprising the Rhizobiaceae which were examined. Evidence is presented that the ACC and PCC activities detectable in Rhizobium etli extracts are catalysed by a single acyl-coenzyme A carboxylase. The enzyme from R. etli strain 12-53 was purified 478-fold and displayed its highest activity with propionyl-CoA as substrate, with apparent K(m) and V(max) values of 0.064 mM and 2885 nmol min(-1) (mg protein)(-1), respectively. The enzyme carboxylated acetyl-CoA and butyryl-CoA with apparent K(m) values of 0.392 and 0.144 mM, respectively, and V(max) values of 423 and 268 nmol min(-1) (mg protein)(-1), respectively. K(+), or Cs(+) markedly activated the enzyme, which was essentially inactive in their absence. Electrophoretic analysis indicated that the acyl-CoA carboxylase was composed of a 74 kDa biotin-containing alpha subunit and a 45 kDa biotin-free beta subunit, and gel chromatography indicated a total molecular mass of 620 000 Da. The strong kinetic preference of the enzyme for propionyl-CoA is consistent with its participation in an anaplerotic pathway utilizing this substrate.	2004 Feb	Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Araíza, Gisela; Araíza, G; Araíza; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	Microbiology (Reading)
15053318	Klebsiella variicola, a novel species with clinical and plant-associated isolates.	A new Klebsiella species, K. variicola, is proposed on the basis of total DNA-DNA hybridization, on the monophyly observed in the phylogenetic analysis derived from the sequences of rpoB, gyrA, mdh, infB, phoE and nifH genes and on distinct phenotypic traits. The bacteria from this new species seem to be genetically isolated from K. pneumoniae strains, do not ferment adonitol and were obtained from plants (such as banana, rice, sugar cane and maize) and hospitals. The type strain is F2R9T (= ATCC BAA-830T = CFNE 2004T).	2004 Feb	Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Martínez, Lucía; Martínez, L; Martínez; Silva, Jesús; Silva, J; Silva; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
15477389	Conservation of adjacency as evidence of paralogous operons.	Most of the analyses on the conservation of gene order are limited to orthologous genes. However, the organization of genes into operons might also result in the conservation of gene order of paralogous genes. Thus, we sought computational evidence that conservation of gene order of paralogous genes represents another level of conservation of genes in operons. We found that pairs of genes within experimentally characterized operons of Escherichia coli K12 and Bacillus subtilis tend to have more adjacently conserved paralogs than pairs of genes at transcription unit boundaries. The fraction of same strand gene pairs corresponding to conserved paralogs averages 0.07 with a maximum of 0.22 in Borrelia burgdorferi. The use of evidence from the conservation of adjacency of paralogous genes can improve the prediction of operons in E.coli K12 by approximately 0.27 over predictions using conservation of adjacency of orthologous genes alone.	2004	Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga; Moreno-Hagelsieb, Gabriel; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb	Nucleic Acids Res
14681419	RegulonDB (version 4.0): transcriptional regulation, operon organization and growth conditions in Escherichia coli K-12.	RegulonDB is the primary database of the major international maintained curation of original literature with experimental knowledge about the elements and interactions of the network of transcriptional regulation in Escherichia coli K-12. This includes mechanistic information about operon organization and their decomposition into transcription units (TUs), promoters and their sigma type, binding sites of specific transcriptional regulators (TRs), their organization into 'regulatory phrases', active and inactive conformations of TRs, as well as terminators and ribosome binding sites. The database is complemented with clearly marked computational predictions of TUs, promoters and binding sites of TRs. The current version has been expanded to include information beyond specific mechanisms aimed at gathering different growth conditions and the associated induced and/or repressed genes. RegulonDB is now linked with Swiss-Prot, with microarray databases, and with a suite of programs to analyze and visualize microarray experiments. We provide a summary of the biological knowledge contained in RegulonDB and describe the major changes in the design of the database. RegulonDB can be accessed on the web at the URL: http://www.cifn.unam.mx/Computational_Biology/regulondb/.	2004 Jan	Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Martínez-Antonio, Agustino; Martínez-Antonio, A; Martínez-Antonio; Díaz-Peredo, Edgar; Díaz-Peredo, E; Díaz-Peredo; Sánchez-Solano, Fabiola; Sánchez-Solano, F; Sánchez-Solano; Peralta-Gil, Martín; Peralta-Gil, M; Peralta-Gil; Garcia-Alonso, Delfino; Garcia-Alonso, D; Garcia-Alonso; Jiménez-Jacinto, Verónica; Jiménez-Jacinto, V; Jiménez-Jacinto; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Bonavides-Martínez, César; Bonavides-Martínez, C; Bonavides-Martínez; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
14708114	Environmental conditions and transcriptional regulation in Escherichia coli: a physiological integrative approach.	Bacteria develop a number of devices for sensing, responding, and adapting to different environmental conditions. Understanding within a genomic perspective how the transcriptional machinery of bacteria is modulated, as a response for changing conditions, is a major challenge for biologists. Knowledge of which genes are turned on or turned off under specific conditions is essential for our understanding of cell behavior. In this study we describe how the information pertaining to gene expression and associated growth conditions (even with very little knowledge of the associated regulatory mechanisms) is gathered from the literature and incorporated into RegulonDB, a database on transcriptional regulation and operon organization in E. coli. The link between growth conditions, signal transduction, and transcriptional regulation is modeled in the database in a simple format that highlights biological relevant information. As far as we know, there is no other database that explicitly clarifies the effect of environmental conditions on gene transcription. We discuss how this knowledge constitutes a benchmark that will impact future research aimed at integration of regulatory responses in the cell; for instance, analysis of microarrays, predicting culture behavior in biotechnological processes, and comprehension of dynamics of regulatory networks. This integrated knowledge will contribute to the future goal of modeling the behavior of E. coli as an entire cell. The RegulonDB database can be accessed on the web at the URL: http://www.cifn.unam.mx/Computational_Biology/regulondb/.	2003 Dec	Martínez-Antonio, Agustino; Martínez-Antonio, A; Martínez-Antonio; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Gutiérrez-Ríos, Rosa María; Gutiérrez-Ríos, RM; Gutiérrez-Ríos; Jiménez-Jacinto, Verónica; Jiménez-Jacinto, V; Jiménez-Jacinto; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Biotechnol Bioeng
14627810	Conservation of DNA curvature signals in regulatory regions of prokaryotic genes.	DNA curvature plays a well-characterized role in many transcriptional regulation mechanisms. We present evidence for the conservation of curvature signals in putative regulatory regions of several archaeal and eubacterial genomes. Genes with highly curved upstream regions were identified in orthologous groups, based on the annotations of the Cluster of Orthologous Groups of proteins (COG) database. COGs possessing a significant number of genes with curvature signals were analyzed, and conserved properties were found in several cases. Curvature signals related to regulatory sites, previously described in single organisms, were located in a broad spectrum of bacterial genomes. Global regulatory proteins, such as HU, IHF and FIS, known to bind to curved DNA and to be autoregulated, were found to present conserved DNA curvature signals in their regulatory regions, emphasizing the fact that structural parameters of the DNA molecule are conserved elements in the process of transcriptional regulation of some systems. It is currently an open question whether these diverse systems are part of an integrated global regulatory response in different microorganisms.	2003 Dec	Jáuregui, Ruy; Jáuregui, R; Jáuregui; Abreu-Goodger, Cei; Abreu-Goodger, C; Abreu-Goodger; Moreno-Hagelsieb, Gabriel; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Merino, Enrique; Merino, E; Merino	Nucleic Acids Res
14576977	Diverse Mesorhizobium plurifarium populations native to Mexican soils.	Forty-six Mesorhizobium strains associated with the leguminous plants Leucaena leucocephala and Sesbania herbacea in an uncultivated Mexican field were characterized using a polyphasic approach. The strains were identified as Mesorhizobium plurifarium based upon the close relationships with the reference strains for this species in PCR-based restriction fragment length polymorphism analyses, sequencing of 16S rRNA genes, multilocus enzyme electrophoresis, and DNA-DNA hybridization. Although the strains isolated from both plants formed the same group in multilocus enzyme electrophoresis and cross-nodulations were observed in the laboratory, different electrophoretic types were obtained from the two plants grown in natural soils, indicating the existence of a preferable association between the plants and the rhizobia. The M. plurifarium strains from Mexico and the reference strains from Africa and Brazil formed different phenotypic clusters in a numerical taxonomy. The Mexican strains did not grow at 37 degrees C and were sensitive to salty-alkaline conditions, while the reference strains from Africa and Brazil grew at 42 degrees C and were more resistant to salty-alkaline conditions. These results demonstrate that both the plants and environmental factors affected the evolution of rhizobia and that the Mexican strains had adapted to the neutral soils and the cool climate where they were isolated.	2003 Dec	Wang, En Tao; Wang, ET; Wang; Kan, Feng Ling; Kan, FL; Kan; Tan, Zhi Yuan; Tan, ZY; Tan; Toledo, Ivonne; Toledo, I; Toledo; Chen, Wen Xin; Chen, WX; Chen; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Arch Microbiol
14663079	Pathways for phosphatidylcholine biosynthesis in bacteria.	Phosphatidylcholine (PC) is the major membrane-forming phospholipid in eukaryotes with important structural and signalling functions. Although many prokaryotes lack PC, it can be found in significant amounts in membranes of rather diverse bacteria. Two pathways for PC biosynthesis are known in bacteria, the methylation pathway and the phosphatidylcholine synthase (PCS) pathway. In the methylation pathway, phosphatidylethanolamine is methylated three times to yield PC, in reactions catalysed by one or several phospholipid N-methyltransferases (PMTs). In the PCS pathway, choline is condensed directly with CDP-diacylglyceride to form PC in a reaction catalysed by PCS. Using cell-free extracts, it was demonstrated that Sinorhizobium meliloti, Agrobacterium tumefaciens, Rhizobium leguminosarum, Bradyrhizobium japonicum, Mesorhizobium loti and Legionella pneumophila have both PMT and PCS activities. In addition, Rhodobacter sphaeroides has PMT activity and Brucella melitensis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Borrelia burgdorferi have PCS activities. Genes from M. loti and L. pneumophila encoding a Pmt or a Pcs activity and the genes from P. aeruginosa and Borrelia burgdorferi responsible for Pcs activity have been identified. Based on these functional assignments and on genomic data, one might predict that if bacteria contain PC as a membrane lipid, they usually possess both bacterial pathways for PC biosynthesis. However, important pathogens such as Brucella melitensis, P. aeruginosa and Borrelia burgdorferi seem to be exceptional as they possess only the PCS pathway for PC formation.	2003 Dec	Martínez-Morales, Fernando; Martínez-Morales, F; Martínez-Morales; Schobert, Max; Schobert, M; Schobert; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	Microbiology (Reading)
14722690	Population dynamics of Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus in sugarcane cultivars and its effect on plant growth.	Different experiments have estimated that the contribution of biological nitrogen fixation (BNF) is largely variable among sugarcane cultivars. Which bacteria are the most important in sugarcane-associated BNF is unknown. However, Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus has been suggested as a strong candidate responsible for the BNF observed. In the present study, bacteria-free micropropagated plantlets of five sugarcane cultivars were inoculated with three G. diazotrophicus strains belonging to different genotypes. Bacterial colonization was monitored under different nitrogen fertilization levels and at different stages of plant growth. Analysis of the population dynamics of G. diazotrophicus strains in the different sugarcane varieties showed that the bacterial populations decreased drastically in relation to plant age, regardless of the nitrogen fertilization level, bacterial genotype or sugarcane cultivars. However, the persistence of the three strains was significantly longer in some cultivars (e.g., MEX 57-473) than in others (e.g., MY 55-14). In addition, some strains (e.g., PAl 5(T)) persisted for longer periods in higher numbers than other strains (e.g., PAl 3) inside plants of all the cultivars tested. Indeed, the study showed that the inoculation of G. diazotrophicus may be beneficial for sugarcane plant growth, but this response is dependent both on the G. diazotrophicus genotype and the sugarcane variety. The most positive response to inoculation was observed with the combination of strain PAl 5(T) and the variety MEX 57-473. Although the positive effect on sugarcane growth apparently occurred by mechanisms other than nitrogen fixation, the results show the importance of the sugarcane variety for the persistence of the plant-bacteria interaction, and it could explain the different rates of BNF estimated among sugarcane cultivars.	2003 Nov	Muñoz-Rojas, J; Muñoz-Rojas, J; Muñoz-Rojas; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	Microb Ecol
14597655	Regulatory network of Escherichia coli: consistency between literature knowledge and microarray profiles.	The transcriptional network of Escherichia coli may well be the most complete experimentally characterized network of a single cell. A rule-based approach was built to assess the degree of consistency between whole-genome microarray experiments in different experimental conditions and the accumulated knowledge in the literature compiled in RegulonDB, a data base of transcriptional regulation and operon organization in E. coli. We observed a high and statistical significant level of consistency, ranging from 70%-87%. When effector metabolites of regulatory proteins are not considered in the prediction of the active or inactive state of the regulators, consistency falls by up to 40%. Similarly, consistency decreases when rules for multiple regulatory interactions are altered or when "on" and "off" entries were assigned randomly. We modified the initial state of regulators and evaluated the propagation of errors in the network that do not correlate linearly with the connectivity of regulators. We interpret this deviation mainly as a result of the existence of redundant regulatory interactions. Consistency evaluation opens a new space of dialogue between theory and experiment, as the consequences of different assumptions can be evaluated and compared.	2003 Nov	Gutiérrez-Ríos, Rosa María; Gutiérrez-Ríos, RM; Gutiérrez-Ríos; Rosenblueth, David A; Rosenblueth, DA; Rosenblueth; Loza, José Antonio; Loza, JA; Loza; Huerta, Araceli M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Glasner, Jeremy D; Glasner, JD; Glasner; Blattner, Fred R; Blattner, FR; Blattner; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Genome Res
14600219	Transcriptional regulation of Pseudomonas aeruginosa rhlR, encoding a quorum-sensing regulatory protein.	The Pseudomonas aeruginosa rhlR gene encodes the transcriptional regulator RhlR which has a central role in the quorum-sensing response. Different gene products involved in bacterial pathogenesis are regulated at the transcriptional level by two quorum-sensing response systems, Las and Rhl. The expression of rhlR has been reported to be under the control of the Las system, but its transcriptional regulation has not been studied in detail. Here, the rhlR promoter region has been characterized and shown to present four different transcription start sites, two of which are included in the upstream gene (rhlB) coding region. It was found that rhlR expression is not only dependent on LasR but also on different regulatory proteins such as Vfr and RhlR itself, and also on the alternative sigma factor sigma(54). It is reported that rhlR expression is partially LasR-independent under certain culture conditions and is strongly influenced by environmental factors.	2003 Nov	Medina, Gerardo; Medina, G; Medina; Juárez, Katy; Juárez, K; Juárez; Díaz, Rafael; Díaz, R; Díaz; Soberón-Chávez, Gloria; Soberón-Chávez, G; Soberón-Chávez	Microbiology (Reading)
14529615	Sigma70 promoters in Escherichia coli: specific transcription in dense regions of overlapping promoter-like signals.	We present here a computational analysis showing that sigma70 house-keeping promoters are located within zones with high densities of promoter-like signals in Escherichia coli, and we introduce strategies that allow for the correct computer prediction of sigma70 promoters. Based on 599 experimentally verified promoters of E.coli K-12, we generated and evaluated more than 200 weight matrices optimizing different criteria to obtain the best recognition matrices. The alignments generating the best statistical models did not fully correspond with the canonical sigma70 model. However, matrices that correspond to such a canonical model performed better as tools for prediction. We tested the predictive capacity of these matrices on 250 bp long regions upstream of gene starts, where 90% of the known promoters occur. The computational matrix models generated an average of 38 promoter-like signals within each 250 bp region. In more than 50% of the cases, the true promoter does not have the best score within the region. We observed, in fact, that real promoters occur mostly within regions with high densities of overlapping putative promoters. We evaluated several strategies to identify promoters. The best one uses an intrinsic score of the -10 and -35 hexamers that form the promoter as well as an extrinsic score that uses the distribution of promoters from the start of the gene. We were able to identify 86% true promoters correctly, generating an average of 4.7 putative promoters per region as output, of which 3.7, on average, exist in clusters, as a series of overlapping potentially competing RNA polymerase-binding sites. As far as we know, this is the highest predictive capability reported so far. This high signal density is found mainly within regions upstream of genes, contrasting with coding regions and regions located between convergently transcribed genes. These results are consistent with experimental evidence that show the existence of multiple overlapping promoter sites that become functional under particular conditions. This density is probably the consequence of a rich number of vestiges of promoters in evolution. We suggest that transcriptional regulators as well as other functional promoters play an important role in keeping these latent signals suppressed.	2003 Oct	Huerta, Araceli M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	J Mol Biol
14572541	Identifying global regulators in transcriptional regulatory networks in bacteria.	The machinery for cells to take decisions, when environmental conditions change, includes protein-DNA interactions defined by transcriptional factors and their targets around promoters. Properties of global regulators are revised attempting to reach diagnostic explicit criteria for their definition and eventual future computational identification. These include among others, the number of regulated genes, the number and type of co-regulators, the different sigma-classes of promoters and the number of transcriptional factors they regulate, the size of the evolutionary family they belong to, and the variety of conditions where they exert their control. As a consequence, global versus local regulation can be identified, as shown for Escherichia coli and eventually in other genomes.	2003 Oct	Martínez-Antonio, Agustino; Martínez-Antonio, A; Martínez-Antonio; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Curr Opin Microbiol
15242276	Regulation of expression of symbiotic genes in Rhizobium sp. NGR234.	Research in the field of Rhizobium-legume symbiosis faces a new challenge: integrate the wealth of information generated by genomic projects. The goal: apprehend the complexity of the molecular mechanisms involved in symbiotic associations. At the time of writing, the genomes of three micro-symbionts (Bradyrhizobium japonicum, Mesorhizobium loti and Sinorhizobium meliloti) have been sequenced, and two more (those of Rhizobium leguminosarum and Rhizobium etli) will be completed in the near future. Together, completed rhizobial genomes represent already 23,393,822 bp of DNA sequence and 21,797 predicted open reading frames (ORFs). To identify candidate-symbiotic genes in such a broad database, predict their function and dissect the regulatory networks that govern their expression are no simple tasks. One way to confront this problem is to combine different datasets, in particular genetic and transcriptional maps as well as predicted promoters from bioinformatics analyses. Here, we would like to illustrate this type of approach with the analysis of the symbiotic plasmid (pNGR234a) of the broad host-range Rhizobium sp. NGR234.	2003 Oct	Perret, Xavier; Perret, X; Perret; Kobayashi, Hajime; Kobayashi, H; Kobayashi; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Indian J Exp Biol
13130069	Classification and nomenclature of Agrobacterium and Rhizobium.	Farrand et al. [Int J Syst Evol Microbiol 53 (2003), 1681-1687] have presented a critique of the proposal of Young et al. [Int J Syst Evol Microbiol 51 (2001), 89-103] to revise the nomenclature and classification of RHIZOBIUM: They argued that Young et al. (2001) are mistaken in their reclassification of all Agrobacterium species within Rhizobium, and that the resulting nomenclatural revision is 'unnecessary and unwarranted'. These objections arise because the authors appear not to understand the role of formal nomenclature, and fail to distinguish between formal and special-purpose nomenclatures (Bacteriological Code, 1990 Revision). The arguments set out by Farrand et al. (2003) can be addressed in terms of (1) the taxonomic status of the genera Agrobacterium and Rhizobium; (2) the status of species and biovars and their nomenclature; and (3) the role of transmissible genomic elements in classification and nomenclature. Finally, an attempt is made to unravel the confusion underpinning their discussion with a consideration of the relationship between formal and special-purpose nomenclatures.	2003 Sep	Young, J M; Young, JM; Young; Kuykendall, L D; Kuykendall, LD; Kuykendall; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Kerr, A; Kerr, A; Kerr; Sawada, H; Sawada, H; Sawada	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
12902376	Natural genomic design in Sinorhizobium meliloti: novel genomic architectures.	The complete nucleotide sequence of the genome of Sinorhizobium meliloti, the symbiont of alfalfa, was reported in 2001 by an international consortium of laboratories. The genome comprises a chromosome of 3.65 megabases (Mb) and two megaplasmids, pSymA and pSymB, of 1.35 Mb and 1.68 Mb, respectively. Based on the nucleotide sequence of the whole genome, we designed a pathway of consecutive rearrangements leading to novel genomic architectures. In a first step we obtained derivative strains containing two replicons; in a second step we obtained a strain containing the genetic information in one single replicon of 6.68 MB. From this last architecture we isolated revertants containing two replicons, and from these we could return to the original architecture showing the three replicons. We found that the relative frequency of excision of cointegrated replicons is higher at the site used for the cointegration than at other sites. This might conciliate two apparently opposed facts: the highly dynamic state of genomic architecture in S. meliloti and the common observation that different isolates and derived cellular clones of S. meliloti usually present the architecture of one chromosome and two distinct megaplasmids. Different aspects that must be considered to obtain full advantage of the strategy of natural genomic design are discussed.	2003 Aug	Guo, Xianwu; Guo, X; Guo; Flores, Margarita; Flores, M; Flores; Mavingui, Patrick; Mavingui, P; Mavingui; Fuentes, Sara Isabel; Fuentes, SI; Fuentes; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; Palacios, Rafael; Palacios, R; Palacios	Genome Res
12904565	Nitrogen fixation genetics and regulation in a Pseudomonas stutzeri strain associated with rice.	The Pseudomonas stutzeri strain A1501 (formerly known as Alcaligenes faecalis) fixes nitrogen under microaerobic conditions in the free-living state and colonizes rice endophytically. The authors characterized a region in strain A1501, corresponding to most of the nif genes and the rnf genes, involved in electron transport to nitrogenase in Rhodobacter capsulatus. The region contained three groups of genes arranged in the same order as in Azotobacter vinelandii: (1) nifB fdx ORF3 nifQ ORF5 ORF6; (2) nifLA-rnfABCDGEF-nifY2/nafY; (3) ORF13 ORF12-nifHDK-nifTY ORF1 ORF2-nifEN. Unlike in A. vinelandii, where these genes are not contiguous on the chromosome, but broken into two regions of the genome, the genes characterized here in P. stutzeri are contiguous and present on a 30 kb region in the genome of this organism. Insertion mutagenesis confirmed that most of the nif and the rnf genes in A1501 were essential for nitrogen fixation. Using lacZ fusions it was found that nif and rnf gene expression was under the control of ntrBC, nifLA and rpoN and that the rnf gene products were involved in the regulation of the nitrogen fixation process.	2003 Aug	Desnoues, Nicole; Desnoues, N; Desnoues; Lin, Min; Lin, M; Lin; Guo, Xianwu; Guo, X; Guo; Ma, Luyan; Ma, L; Ma; Carreño-Lopez, Ricardo; Carreño-Lopez, R; Carreño-Lopez; Elmerich, Claudine; Elmerich, C; Elmerich	Microbiology (Reading)
12801410	The mosaic structure of the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium etli CFN42 and its relation to other symbiotic genome compartments.	Symbiotic bacteria known as rhizobia interact with the roots of legumes and induce the formation of nitrogen-fixing nodules. In rhizobia, essential genes for symbiosis are compartmentalized either in symbiotic plasmids or in chromosomal symbiotic islands. To understand the structure and evolution of the symbiotic genome compartments (SGCs), it is necessary to analyze their common genetic content and organization as well as to study their differences. To date, five SGCs belonging to distinct species of rhizobia have been entirely sequenced. We report the complete sequence of the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium etli CFN42, a microsymbiont of beans, and a comparison with other SGC sequences available.	2003	González, Víctor; González, V; González; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Ramírez-Romero, Miguel A; Ramírez-Romero, MA; Ramírez-Romero; Medrano-Soto, Arturo; Medrano-Soto, A; Medrano-Soto; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Hernández-González, Ismael; Hernández-González, I; Hernández-González; Hernández-Celis, Juan Carlos; Hernández-Celis, JC; Hernández-Celis; Quintero, Verónica; Quintero, V; Quintero; Moreno-Hagelsieb, Gabriel; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Rodríguez, Oscar; Rodríguez, O; Rodríguez; Flores, Margarita; Flores, M; Flores; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila	Genome Biol
12892151	Description of new Ensifer strains from nodules and proposal to transfer Ensifer adhaerens Casida 1982 to Sinorhizobium as Sinorhizobium adhaerens comb. nov. Request for an opinion.	A group of four diverse rhizobial isolates and two soil isolates that are highly related to Ensifer adhaerens were characterized by a polyphasic approach. On the basis of DNA-DNA hybridizations and phenotypic features, these strains cannot be distinguished clearly form Ensifer adhaerens, a soil bacterium that was described in 1982, mainly on the basis of phenotypic characteristics. Phylogenetically, Ensifer and Sinorhizobium form a single group in the 16S rDNA dendrogram of the alpha-Proteobacteria, as well as in an analysis of partial recA gene sequences. They may therefore be regarded as a single genus. Because Sinorhizobium was proposed in 1988, according to the Bacteriological Code (1990 Revision) the older name, Ensifer, has priority. However, there are several reasons why a change from Sinorhizobium to Ensifer may not be the best solution and making an exception to Rule 38 may be more appropriate. We therefore propose the species Sinorhizobium adhaerens comb. nov. and put forward a Request for an Opinion to the Judicial Commission regarding the conservation of Sinorhizobium adhaerens over Ensifer adhaerens.	2003 Jul	Willems, Anne; Willems, A; Willems; Fernández-López, Manuel; Fernández-López, M; Fernández-López; Muñoz-Adelantado, Estefania; Muñoz-Adelantado, E; Muñoz-Adelantado; Goris, Johan; Goris, J; Goris; De Vos, Paul; De Vos, P; De Vos; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Toro, Nicolas; Toro, N; Toro; Gillis, Monique; Gillis, M; Gillis	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
12848422	Membrane lipids in plant-associated bacteria: their biosyntheses and possible functions.	Membrane lipids in most bacteria generally consist of the glycerophospholipids phosphatidylglycerol, cardiolipin, and phosphatidylethanolamine (PE). A subset of bacteria also possesses the methylated derivatives of PE, monomethylphosphatidylethanolamine, dimethylphosphatidylethanolamine, and phosphatidylcholine (PC). In Sinorhizobium meliloti, which can form a nitrogen-fixing root nodule symbiosis with Medicago spp., PC can be formed by two entirely different biosynthetic pathways, either the PE methylation pathway or the recently discovered PC synthase pathway. In the latter pathway, one of the building blocks for PC formation, choline, is obtained from the eukaryotic host. Under phosphorus-limiting conditions of growth, S. meliloti replaces its membrane phospholipids by membrane-forming lipids that do not contain phosphorus; namely, the sulfolipid sulfoquinovosyl diacylglycerol, ornithine-derived lipids, and diacylglyceryl-N,N,N-trimethylhomoserine. Although none of these phosphorus-free lipids is essential for growth in culture media rich in phosphorus or for the symbiotic interaction with the legume host, they are expected to have major roles under free-living conditions in environments poor in accessible phosphorus. In contrast, sinorhizobial mutants deficient in PC show severe growth defects and are completely unable to form nodules on their host plants. Even bradyrhizobial mutants with reduced PC biosynthesis can form only root nodules displaying reduced rates of nitrogen fixation. Therefore, in the cases of these microsymbionts, the ability to form sufficient bacterial PC is crucial for a successful interplay with their host plants.	2003 Jul	López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
12795377	A global analysis of protein expression profiles in Sinorhizobium meliloti: discovery of new genes for nodule occupancy and stress adaptation.	A proteomic examination of Sinorhizobium meliloti strain 1021 was undertaken using a combination of 2-D gel electrophoresis, peptide mass fingerprinting, and bioinformatics. Our goal was to identify (i) putative symbiosis- or nutrient-stress-specific proteins, (ii) the biochemical pathways active under different conditions, (iii) potential new genes, and (iv) the extent of posttranslational modifications of S. meliloti proteins. In total, we identified the protein products of 810 genes (13.1% of the genome's coding capacity). The 810 genes generated 1,180 gene products, with chromosomal genes accounting for 78% of the gene products identified (18.8% of the chromosome's coding capacity). The activity of 53 metabolic pathways was inferred from bioinformatic analysis of proteins with assigned Enzyme Commission numbers. Of the remaining proteins that did not encode enzymes, ABC-type transporters composed 12.7% and regulatory proteins 3.4% of the total. Proteins with up to seven transmembrane domains were identified in membrane preparations. A total of 27 putative nodule-specific proteins and 35 nutrient-stress-specific proteins were identified and used as a basis to define genes and describe processes occurring in S. meliloti cells in nodules and under stress. Several nodule proteins from the plant host were present in the nodule bacteria preparations. We also identified seven potentially novel proteins not predicted from the DNA sequence. Post-translational modifications such as N-terminal processing could be inferred from the data. The posttranslational addition of UMP to the key regulator of nitrogen metabolism, PII, was demonstrated. This work demonstrates the utility of combining mass spectrometry with protein arraying or separation techniques to identify candidate genes involved in important biological processes and niche occupations that may be intransigent to other methods of gene expression profiling.	2003 Jun	Djordjevic, Michael A; Djordjevic, MA; Djordjevic; Chen, Han Cai; Chen, HC; Chen; Natera, Siria; Natera, S; Natera; Van Noorden, Giel; Van Noorden, G; Van Noorden; Menzel, Christian; Menzel, C; Menzel; Taylor, Scott; Taylor, S; Taylor; Renard, Clotilde; Renard, C; Renard; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Weiller, Georg F; Weiller, GF; Weiller; Sinorhizobium DNA Sequencing Consortium	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
12730270	Molecular cloning of the cDNA encoding aspartate aminotransferase from bean root nodules and determination of its role in nodule nitrogen metabolism.	A cDNA clone encoding aspartate aminotransferase (PVAAT-2) (EC 2.6.1.1) was isolated from the common bean Phaseolus vulgaris nodule cDNA library. The nucleotide sequence analysis of the full-length cDNA allowed its identification by comparison with sequence databases. The amino acid sequence of the bean PvAAT-2 showed high similarity with the AAT-2 isoforms described in other leguminous plants. The amino-terminal region of the PvAAT-2 contains a sequence, which shares common features of plastid transit peptides. Southern blot analysis showed that the PvAAT-2 clone is encoded by a single gene in the P. vulgaris genome. Analysis of the PvAAT-2 mRNA levels suggests that the expression of this gene is nodule enhanced. The PvAAT-2 transcript is more abundant in nodules with increased synthesis of amides and is down-regulated in conditions where ureides accumulate. When plants were supplemented with ureides or with amides, PvAAT-2 expression was reduced, while it was not affected when plants were treated with allopurinol, an inhibitor of ureide synthesis. On the other hand, the expression of asparagine synthetase (another enzyme involved in the synthesis of amides) is not affected either by ureides or amides. These data suggest a role for AAT-2 in the mechanism involved in the synthesis of nitrogen compounds in bean nodules.	2003 Jun	Silvente, Sonia; Silvente, S; Silvente; Camas, Alberto; Camas, A; Camas; Lara, Miguel; Lara, M; Lara	J Exp Bot
12833533	Proteome analysis of aerobic and fermentative metabolism in Rhizobium etli CE3.	Rhizobium etli undergoes a transition from an aerobic to a fermentative metabolism during successive subcultures in minimal medium. This metabolic transition does not occur in cells subcultured in rich medium, or in minimal medium containing either biotin or thiamine. In this report, we characterize the aerobic and fermentative metabolism of R. etli using proteome analysis. According to their synthesis patterns in response to aerobic (rich medium, minimal medium with biotin or minimal medium with thiamine) or fermentative (minimal medium without supplements) growth conditions, proteins were assigned to five different classes: (i) proteins produced only in aerobic conditions (e.g., catalase-peroxidase KatG and the E2 component of pyruvate dehydrogenase); (ii) protein produced under both conditions but strongly induced in aerobic metabolism (e.g., malate dehydrogenase and the succinyl-CoA synthetase beta subunit); (iii) proteins that were induced equally under all conditions tested (e.g., AniA, DnaK, and GroEL); (iv) proteins downregulated during aerobic metabolism, and (v) proteins specific to only one of the conditions analyzed. Northern blotting studies of katG expression confirmed the proteome data for this protein. The negative regulation of carbon metabolism proteins observed in fermentative metabolism is consistent with the drastic physiological changes which occur during this process.	2003 Jun	Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Guzmán, Yudith; Guzmán, Y; Guzmán; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Hernández, Magdalena; Hernández, M; Hernández; del Carmen Vargas, Maria; del Carmen Vargas, M; del Carmen Vargas; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	Proteomics
12724378	Only one catalase, katG, is detectable in Rhizobium etli, and is encoded along with the regulator OxyR on a plasmid replicon.	The plasmid-borne Rhizobium etli katG gene encodes a dual-function catalase-peroxidase (KatG) (EC 1.11.1.7) that is inducible and heat-labile. In contrast to other rhizobia, katG was shown to be solely responsible for catalase and peroxidase activity in R. etli. An R. etli mutant that did not express catalase activity exhibited increased sensitivity to hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)). Pre-exposure to a sublethal concentration of H(2)O(2) allowed R. etli to adapt and survive subsequent exposure to higher concentrations of H(2)O(2). Based on a multiple sequence alignment with other catalase-peroxidases, it was found that the catalytic domains of the R. etli KatG protein had three large insertions, two of which were typical of KatG proteins. Like the katG gene of Escherichia coli, the R. etli katG gene was induced by H(2)O(2) and was important in sustaining the exponential growth rate. In R. etli, KatG catalase-peroxidase activity is induced eightfold in minimal medium during stationary phase. It was shown that KatG catalase-peroxidase is not essential for nodulation and nitrogen fixation in symbiosis with Phaseolus vulgaris, although bacteroid proteome analysis indicated an alternative compensatory mechanism for the oxidative protection of R. etli in symbiosis. Next to, and divergently transcribed from the catalase promoter, an ORF encoding the regulator OxyR was found; this is the first plasmid-encoded oxyR gene described so far. Additionally, the katG promoter region contained sequence motifs characteristic of OxyR binding sites, suggesting a possible regulatory mechanism for katG expression.	2003 May	Del Carmen Vargas, María; Del Carmen Vargas, M; Del Carmen Vargas; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Dávalos, Araceli; Dávalos, A; Dávalos; Reyes-Pérez, Agustín; Reyes-Pérez, A; Reyes-Pérez; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; García-de Los Santos, Alejandro; García-de Los Santos, A; García-de Los Santos; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	Microbiology (Reading)
12676676	Identification of a third sulfate activation system in Sinorhizobium sp. strain BR816: the CysDN sulfate activation complex.	Sinorhizobium sp. strain BR816 possesses two nodPQ copies, providing activated sulfate (3'-phosphoadenosine-5'-phosphosulfate [PAPS]) needed for the biosynthesis of sulfated Nod factors. It was previously shown that the Nod factors synthesized by a nodPQ double mutant are not structurally different from those of the wild-type strain. In this study, we describe the characterization of a third sulfate activation locus. Two open reading frames were fully characterized and displayed the highest similarity with the Sinorhizobium meliloti housekeeping ATP sulfurylase subunits, encoded by the cysDN genes. The growth characteristics as well as the levels of Nod factor sulfation of a cysD mutant (FAJ1600) and a nodP1 nodQ2 cysD triple mutant (FAJ1604) were determined. FAJ1600 shows a prolonged lag phase only with inorganic sulfate as the sole sulfur source, compared to the wild-type parent. On the other hand, FAJ1604 requires cysteine for growth and produces sulfate-free Nod factors. Apigenin-induced nod gene expression for Nod factor synthesis does not influence the growth characteristics of any of the strains studied in the presence of different sulfur sources. In this way, it could be demonstrated that the "household" CysDN sulfate activation complex of Sinorhizobium sp. strain BR816 can additionally ensure Nod factor sulfation, whereas the symbiotic PAPS pool, generated by the nodPQ sulfate activation loci, can be engaged for sulfation of amino acids. Finally, our results show that rhizobial growth defects are likely the reason for a decreased nitrogen fixation capacity of bean plants inoculated with cysD mutant strains, which can be restored by adding methionine to the plant nutrient solution.	2003 Apr	Snoeck, Carla; Snoeck, C; Snoeck; Verreth, Christel; Verreth, C; Verreth; Hernández-Lucas, Ismael; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Vanderleyden, Jos; Vanderleyden, J; Vanderleyden	Appl Environ Microbiol
12631328	Antisense inhibition of NADH glutamate synthase impairs carbon/nitrogen assimilation in nodules of alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.).	Legumes acquire significant amounts of nitrogen for growth from symbiotic nitrogen fixation. The glutamine synthetase (GS)/NADH-dependent glutamate synthase (NADH-GOGAT) cycle catalyzes initial nitrogen assimilation. This report describes the impact of specifically reducing nodule NADH-GOGAT activity on symbiotic performance of alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.). Four independent transgenic alfalfa lines, designated GA89, GA87, GA88, and GA82 (for GOGATantisense), containing an antisense NADH-GOGAT cDNA fragment under the control of the soybean leghemoglobin (lbc3) promoter were evaluated. The GA plants were fertile and showed normal growth in non-symbiotic conditions. The NADH-GOGAT antisense transgene was heritable and the T1 plants showed phenotypic alterations - similar to primary transformants. Clonally propagated plants were inoculated with Sinorhizobium meliloti after rooting and the symbiotic phenotype was analyzed 21 days post-inoculation. Nodules of each GA line had reduced NADH-GOGAT activity, ranging from 33 to 87% of control plants, that was accompanied by comparable decreases in RNA and protein. Plants from the GA89 line, with the lowest NADH-GOGAT activity (c. 30%), presented a strikingly altered symbiotic phenotype: concomitantly activities of key enzyme for carbon and nitrogen assimilation decreased; nodule amino acids and amides were reduced while sucrose accumulated. Antisense GOGAT plants were chlorotic, reduced in fresh weight, and had a lower N content than control plants. Photosynthesis was also impaired in antisense plants. Specifically, reducing NADH-GOGAT in nodules resulted in plants having impaired nitrogen assimilation and altered carbon/nitrogen metabolic flux.	2003 Mar	Cordoba, Elizabeth; Cordoba, E; Cordoba; Shishkova, Svetlana; Shishkova, S; Shishkova; Vance, Carroll P; Vance, CP; Vance; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	Plant J
12547654	Biosynthesis of phosphatidylcholine in bacteria.	Phosphatidylcholine (PC) is the major membrane-forming phospholipid in eukaryotes and can be synthesized by either of two pathways, the methylation pathway or the CDP-choline pathway. Many prokaryotes lack PC, but it can be found in significant amounts in membranes of rather diverse bacteria and based on genomic data, we estimate that more than 10% of all bacteria possess PC. Enzymatic methylation of phosphatidylethanolamine via the methylation pathway was thought to be the only biosynthetic pathway to yield PC in bacteria. However, a choline-dependent pathway for PC biosynthesis has been discovered in Sinorhizobium meliloti. In this pathway, PC synthase, condenses choline directly with CDP-diacylglyceride to form PC in one step. A number of symbiotic (Rhizobium leguminosarum, Mesorhizobium loti) and pathogenic (Agrobacterium tumefaciens, Brucella melitensis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Borrelia burgdorferi and Legionella pneumophila) bacteria seem to possess the PC synthase pathway and we suggest that the respective eukaryotic host functions as the provider of choline for this pathway. Pathogens entering their hosts through epithelia (Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae) require phosphocholine substitutions on their cell surface components that are biosynthetically also derived from choline supplied by the host. However, the incorporation of choline in these latter cases proceeds via choline phosphate and CDP-choline as intermediates. The occurrence of two intermediates in prokaryotes usually found as intermediates in the eukaryotic CDP-choline pathway for PC biosynthesis raises the question whether some bacteria might form PC via a CDP-choline pathway.	2003 Mar	Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	Prog Lipid Res
12591886	Conjugative transfer of p42a from rhizobium etli CFN42, which is required for mobilization of the symbiotic plasmid, is regulated by quorum sensing.	Rhizobium etli CFN42 contains six plasmids. Only one of them, p42a, is self-conjugative at high frequency. This plasmid is strictly required for mobilization of the symbiotic plasmid (pSym). To study the transfer mechanism of p42a, a self-transmissible cosmid clone containing its transfer region was isolated. Its sequence showed that most of the tra genes are highly similar to genes of Agrobacterium tumefaciens pTiC58 and other related plasmids. Four putative regulatory genes were identified; three of these (traI, traR, and cinR) belong to the LuxR-LuxI family. Mutagenesis of these genes confirmed their requirement for p42a transfer. We found that the conjugative transfer of p42a is dependent on quorum sensing, and consequently pSym transfer also was found to be similarly regulated, establishing a complex link between environmental conditions and pSym transfer. Although R. etli has been shown to produce different N-acyl-homoserine lactones, only one of them, a 3-oxo-C(8)-homoserine lactone encoded by the traI gene described here, was involved in transfer. Mutagenesis of the fourth regulatory gene, traM, had no effect on transfer. Analysis of transcriptional fusions of the regulatory genes to a reporter gene suggests a complex regulation scheme for p42a conjugative transfer. Conjugal transfer gene expression was found to be directly upregulated by TraR and the 3-oxo-C(8)-homoserine lactone synthesized by TraI. The traI gene was autoregulated by these elements and positively regulated by CinR, while cinR expression required traI. Finally, we did not detect expression of traM, indicating that in p42a TraM may be expressed so weakly that it cannot inhibit conjugal transfer, leading to the unrepressed transfer of p42a.	2003 Mar	Tun-Garrido, Cristina; Tun-Garrido, C; Tun-Garrido; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom	J Bacteriol
12644659	Nylon filter arrays reveal differential gene expression in proteoid roots of white lupin in response to phosphorus deficiency.	White lupin (Lupinus albus) adapts to phosphorus deficiency (-P) by the development of short, densely clustered lateral roots called proteoid (or cluster) roots. In an effort to better understand the molecular events mediating these adaptive responses, we have isolated and sequenced 2,102 expressed sequence tags (ESTs) from cDNA libraries prepared with RNA isolated at different stages of proteoid root development. Determination of overlapping regions revealed 322 contigs (redundant copy transcripts) and 1,126 singletons (single-copy transcripts) that compile to a total of 1,448 unique genes (unigenes). Nylon filter arrays with these 2,102 ESTs from proteoid roots were performed to evaluate global aspects of gene expression in response to -P stress. ESTs differentially expressed in P-deficient proteoid roots compared with +P and -P normal roots include genes involved in carbon metabolism, secondary metabolism, P scavenging and remobilization, plant hormone metabolism, and signal transduction.	2003 Mar	Uhde-Stone, Claudia; Uhde-Stone, C; Uhde-Stone; Zinn, Kelly E; Zinn, KE; Zinn; Ramirez-Yáñez, Mario; Ramirez-Yáñez, M; Ramirez-Yáñez; Li, Aiguo; Li, A; Li; Vance, Carroll P; Vance, CP; Vance; Allan, Deborah L; Allan, DL; Allan	Plant Physiol
12654032	Overexpression of alfalfa cytosolic glutamine synthetase in nodules and flowers of transgenic Lotus japonicus plants.	Legumes can obtain nitrogen from symbiotic nitrogen fixation in root nodules. The glutamine synthetase/glutamate synthase cycle is responsible for the initial nitrogen assimilation. This work reports the analysis of transgenic Lotus japonicus plants with the chimeric gene containing the alfalfa cytosolic glutamine synthetase (GS1) (EC 6.3.1.2) gene controlled by the Sesbania rostrata leghemoglobin gene promoter (Srglb3p). Surprisingly, all of the transgenic primary transformants analysed were sterile. Two transformants designated GS39 and GS44 were further analysed. GS in nodules of GS39 and GS44 plants was upregulated, at the level of transcript and protein. The transgenic plants had 2-fold higher nodule GS activity and similar root GS activity compared to control plants. The GS39 and GS44 sterile plants showed morphological alterations in pollen grains and in ovules. An increase in GS transcript abundance and enzyme activity was measured during early and late stages of flower development of GS plants. Flowers of GS plants showed higher glutamine content, resulting in an increased glutamine/glutamate ratio. The GS transcript and protein were detected in ovules. These data indicate that overexpression of GS1 in reproductive organs critically affects their development and might be a reason for sterility of L. japonicus plants.	2003 Mar	Suárez, Ramón; Suárez, R; Suárez; Márquez, Judith; Márquez, J; Márquez; Shishkova, Svetlana; Shishkova, S; Shishkova; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	Physiol Plant
12747410	Sinorhizobium americanus sp. nov., a new Sinorhizobium species nodulating native Acacia spp. in Mexico.	The sinorhizobia isolated from root nodules of Acacia species native of Mexico constitute a diverse group of bacteria on the basis of their metabolic enzyme electromorphs but share restriction patterns of the PCR products of 16S rRNA genes and a common 500 kb symbiotic plasmid. They are distinguished from other Sinorhizobium species by their levels of DNA-DNA hybridization and the sequence of 16S rRNA and nifH genes. nolR gene hybridization patterns were found useful to identify sinorhizobia and characterize species. A new species, Sinorhizobium americanus, is described and the type strain is CFNEI 156 from Acacia acatlensis.	2003 Mar	Toledo, Ivonne; Toledo, I; Toledo; Lloret, Lourdes; Lloret, L; Lloret; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
12575750	Genetic analysis of a pH-regulated operon from Rhizobium tropici CIAT899 involved in acid tolerance and nodulation competitiveness.	Rhizobium tropici CIAT899 is highly acid tolerant and a good competitor for Phaseolus vulgaris nodule occupancy at low pH values. Using Tn5 mutagenesis, we identified an operon required for acid tolerance and nodulation competitiveness. The insertion was mapped to the 5' end of atvA, encoding a product with high sequence identity to the agro-bacterial AcvB virulence protein. Complementation analyses indicated that atvA is an ortholog of acvB, both genes being required for acid tolerance. A Ser/Ala substitution in the LIPASE_SER motif of AtvA resulted in an acid sensitive Fix+ but very poorly competing strain, demonstrating that Ser-313 is essential for AtvA function. atvA is the second gene in an operon that is transcriptionally upregulated by acid shock. The acid-responsive promoter was mapped to a 469-bp intergenic region located upstream of lpiA, the first gene in the operon. lpiA-like genes are found in several alpha, beta, and gamma Proteobacteria that interact with eukaryotic host cells, and they are predicted to encode membrane proteins related to the FmtC/MprF family from low G+C Firmicutes. The latter proteins are involved in resistance to cationic antimicrobial peptides. A nonpolar deletion in lpiA caused a sevenfold decrease in relative nodulation competitiveness.	2003 Feb	Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Neumann-Silkow, Frauke; Neumann-Silkow, F; Neumann-Silkow; Pacios-Bras, Cristina; Pacios-Bras, C; Pacios-Bras; Spaink, Herman P; Spaink, HP; Spaink; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Werner, Dietrich; Werner, D; Werner	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
12554718	Heterogeneity of sucrose synthase genes in bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.): evidence for a nodule-enhanced sucrose synthase gene.	Sucrose synthase (SS), the key sucrose hydrolytic enzyme (EC 2.4.1.13), plays an important role in N(2)-fixing nodule metabolism. It has also been proposed that N(2) fixation in soybean nodules could be mediated by the potential to metabolize sucrose. The isolation and characterization of a nodule-enhanced SS full-length cDNA clone from the bean Phaseolus vulgaris is reported here. Southern blot analysis indicated that there are at least two SS genes in beans. Using a 3' specific probe from this SS cDNA clone, it was possible to identify a nodule-enhanced SS gene (PvSSn), which is expressed almost exclusively in nodules. A second gene (PvSS), which is expressed in all tissues tested, was detected using a coding region probe. Nodule-enhanced PvSSn transcript levels, but not the enzyme activity or protein amount, is reduced during nodule development. These data indicated that this reduction could be due to a limitation on the carbon availability in the nodule. PvSSn expression is reduced in the asparagine-treated nodules. By contrast, PvSSn transcript levels in nodules increased in the presence of glutamine, allantoin and allopurinol. This result suggests a relationship between ureide transport and SS regulation and could help in understanding why the ureide transport mechanism is activated during nitrogen fixation in bean.	2003 Feb	Silvente, Sonia; Silvente, S; Silvente; Camas, Alberto; Camas, A; Camas; Lara, Miguel; Lara, M; Lara	J Exp Bot
12571008	Rhizobium etli and Rhizobium gallicum nodulate common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) in a traditionally managed milpa plot in Mexico: population genetics and biogeographic implications.	The stability of the genetic structure of rhizobial populations nodulating Phaseolus vulgaris cultivated in a traditionally managed milpa plot in Mexico was studied over three consecutive years. The set of molecular markers analyzed (including partial rrs, glnII, nifH, and nodB sequences), along with host range experiments, placed the isolates examined in Rhizobium etli bv. phaseoli and Rhizobium gallicum bv. gallicum. Cluster analysis of multilocus enzyme electrophoresis and plasmid profile data separated the two species and identified numerically dominant clones within each of them. Population genetic analyses showed that there was high genetic differentiation between the two species and that there was low intrapopulation differentiation of the species over the 3 years. The results of linkage disequilibrium analyses are consistent with an epidemic genetic structure for both species, with frequent genetic exchange taking place within conspecific populations but not between the R. etli and R. gallicum populations. A subsample of isolates was selected and used for 16S ribosomal DNA PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis, nifH copy number determination, and host range experiments. Plasmid profiles and nifH hybridization patterns also revealed the occurrence of lateral plasmid transfer among distinct multilocus genotypes within species but not between species. Both species were recovered from nodules of the same plants, indicating that mechanisms other than host, spatial, or temporal isolation may account for the genetic barrier between the species. The biogeographic implications of finding an R. gallicum bv. gallicum population nodulating common bean in America are discussed.	2003 Feb	Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Eguiarte, Luis E; Eguiarte, LE; Eguiarte; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Souza, Valeria; Souza, V; Souza	Appl Environ Microbiol
12580283	BacS: an abundant bacteroid protein in Rhizobium etli whose expression ex planta requires nifA.	Rhizobium etli CFN42 bacteroids from bean nodules possessed an abundant 16-kDa protein (BacS) that was found in the membrane pellet after cell disruption. This protein was not detected in bacteria cultured in tryptone-yeast extract. In minimal media, it was produced at low oxygen concentration but not in a mutant whose nifA was disrupted. N-terminal sequencing of the protein led to isolation of a bacS DNA fragment. DNA hybridization and nucleotide sequencing revealed three copies of the bacS gene, all residing on the main symbiotic plasmid of strain CFN42. A stretch of 304 nucleotides, exactly conserved upstream of all three bacS open reading frames, had very close matches with the NifA and sigma 54 consensus binding sequences. The only bacS homology in the genetic sequence databases was to three hypothetical proteins of unknown function, all from rhizobial species. Mutation and genetic complementation indicated that each of the bacS genes gives rise to a BacS polypeptide. Mutants disrupted or deleted in all three genes did not produce the BacS polypeptide but were Nod+ and Fix+ on Phaseolus vulgaris.	2003 Jan	Jahn, Olivia J; Jahn, OJ; Jahn; Davila, Guillermo; Davila, G; Davila; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Noel, K Dale; Noel, KD; Noel	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
14574106	Evolutionary and structural diversity of fungal laccases.	Fungal laccases have been extensively exploited for industrial purposes and there is a wealth of information available regarding their reaction mechanism, biological role and several molecular aspects, including cloning, heterologous expression and transcriptional analyses. Here we present the reconstruction of the fungal laccase loci evolution inferred from the comparative analysis of 48 different sequences. The topology of the phylogenetic trees indicate that a single monophyletic branch exists for fungal laccases and that laccase isozyme genes may have evolved independently, possibly through duplication-divergence events. Laccases are copper-containing enzymes generally identified by the utilization of substituted p-diphenol substrates. Interestingly, our approach permitted the assignment of two copper-containing oxidases, preliminarily catalogued as laccases, to a different evolutionary group, distantly related to the main branch of bona fide laccases.	2003	Valderrama, Brenda; Valderrama, B; Valderrama; Oliver, Patricia; Oliver, P; Oliver; Medrano-Soto, Arturo; Medrano-Soto, A; Medrano-Soto; Vazquez-Duhalt, Rafael; Vazquez-Duhalt, R; Vazquez-Duhalt	Antonie Van Leeuwenhoek
12169563	A powerful non-homology method for the prediction of operons in prokaryotes.	The prediction of the transcription unit organization of genomes is an important clue in the inference of functional relationships of genes, the interpretation and evaluation of transcriptome experiments, and the overall inference of the regulatory networks governing the expression of genes in response to the environment. Though several methods have been devised to predict operons, most need a high characterization of the genome analysed. Log-likelihoods derived from inter-genic distance distributions work surprisingly well to predict operons in Escherichia coli and are available for any genome as soon as the gene sets are predicted.	2002	Moreno-Hagelsieb, Gabriel; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Bioinformatics
12481062	Characterization of Arabidopsis AtAMT2, a high-affinity ammonium transporter of the plasma membrane.	AtAMT2 is an ammonium transporter that is only distantly related to the five members of the AtAMT1 family of high-affinity ammonium transporters in Arabidopsis. The short-lived radioactive ion (13)NH(4)(+) was used to show that AtAMT2, expressed in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae), is a high-affinity transporter with a K(m) for ammonium of about 20 microM. Changes in external pH between 5.0 and 7.5 had little effect on the K(m) for ammonium, indicating that NH(4)(+), not NH(3), is the substrate for AtAMT2. The AtAMT2 gene was expressed in all organs of Arabidopsis and was subject to nitrogen (N) regulation, at least in roots where expression was partially repressed by high concentrations of ammonium nitrate and derepressed in the absence of external N. Although expression of AtAMT2 in shoots responded little to changes in root N status, transcript levels in leaves declined under high CO(2) conditions. Transient expression of an AtAMT2-green fluorescent protein fusion protein in Arabidopsis leaf epidermal cells indicated a plasma membrane location for the AtAMT2 protein. Thus, AtAMT2 is likely to play a significant role in moving ammonium between the apoplast and symplast of cells throughout the plant. However, a dramatic reduction in the level of AtAMT2 transcript brought about by dsRNA interference with gene expression had no obvious effect on plant growth or development, under the conditions tested.	2002 Dec	Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Wood, Craig C; Wood, CC; Wood; Roeb, Gerhard W; Roeb, GW; Roeb; Udvardi, Michael K; Udvardi, MK; Udvardi	Plant Physiol
15130857	Towards a bioinformatics network for Latin America and the Caribbean (LACBioNet).	Bioinformatics is increasingly recognised as a crucial field for research and development in the biological sciences, and forms an integral part of genomics, proteomics and modern biotechnology. Worldwide participation is important, and scientists in developing countries can contribute to this field. Regional networks for bioinformatics are highly beneficial for capacity strengthening and cooperation, and for establishing productive interactions between scientists in the fields of biological and informatics sciences. Such a network (LACBioNet) is being organised for Latin America and the Caribbean. Its immediate goals include the organisation and extension of nodes and services, information and communication, research and development in different specialty fields of bioinformatics, and training and human resource development.	2002	Degrave, Wim M; Degrave, WM; Degrave; Vargas, Reynaldo; Vargas, R; Vargas; Alvarez, Fernando; Alvarez, F; Alvarez; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Nuñez, Luis; Nuñez, L; Nuñez; Ramirez, José Luis; Ramirez, JL; Ramirez; Grau, Oscar; Grau, O; Grau	Appl Bioinformatics
12383728	Rhizobium etli CFN42 contains at least three plasmids of the repABC family: a structural and evolutionary analysis.	In this paper, we report the identification of replication/partition regions of plasmid p42a and p42b of Rhizobium etli CFN42. Sequence analysis reveals that both replication/partition regions belong to the repABC family. Phylogenetic analysis of all the complete repABC replication/partition regions reported to date, shows that repABC plasmids coexisting in the same strain arose most likely by lateral transfer instead of by duplication followed by divergence. A model explaining how new incompatibility groups originate, is proposed.	2002 Sep	Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Porta, Helena; Porta, H; Porta; Izquierdo, Javier; Izquierdo, J; Izquierdo; Tun-Garrido, Cristina; Tun-Garrido, C; Tun-Garrido; García-de-los-Santos, Alejandro; García-de-los-Santos, A; García-de-los-Santos; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom	Plasmid
12421308	A site-specific recombinase (RinQ) is required to exert incompatibility towards the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium etli.	The replication/partition region of the symbiotic plasmid p42d of Rhizobium etli CE3 is characterized by the presence of the repABC operon. A recombinant plasmid containing this region is able to replicate in a R. etli derivative cured from p42d, with the same stability and copy number shown by the parental plasmid. However, when this construct is introduced into the wild-type strain, instead of exerting incompatibility against the p42d, it forms a stable cointegrate with it. In this paper, we show that a site-specific resolvase, and its action sites are essential factors to displace the symbiotic p42d. We propose a model for this novel incompatibility mechanism.	2002 Nov	Quintero, Verónica; Quintero, V; Quintero; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila	Mol Microbiol
12398186	In vivo cloning strategy for Rhizobium plasmids.	We have developed a simple system to clone indigenous Rhizobium plasmids into E. coli. The strategy consists of three matings: the first is to insert Tn5 in the plasmid to be cloned, the second incorporates the integrative vector into the inserted Tn5 in the native Rhizobium plasmid, and the last mating transfers the target plasmid directly into E. coli. This mating-based system was successfully used to clone plasmids of Rhizobium species with sizes ranging from 150 to 270 kb. In addition, a 500-kb fragment of a 600-kb megaplasmid was also cloned. This strategy could be used for cloning indigenous replicons of other gram-negative bacteria into a different host.	2002 Oct	Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Mavingui, P; Mavingui, P; Mavingui; Finan, T; Finan, T; Finan; Chain, P; Chain, P; Chain; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Biotechniques
12489782	The glcB locus of Rhizobium leguminosarum VF39 encodes an arabinose-inducible malate synthase.	In the course of a study conducted to isolate genes upregulated by plant cell wall sugars, we identified an arabinose-inducible locus from a transcriptional fusion library of Rhizobium leguminosarum VF39, carrying random insertions of the lacZ transposon Tn5B22. Sequence analysis of the locus disrupted by the transposon revealed a high similarity to uncharacterized malate synthase G genes from Sinorhizobium meliloti, Agrobacterium tumefaciens, and Mesorhizobium loti. This enzyme catalyzes the condensation of glyoxylate and acetyl-CoA to yield malate and CoA and is thought to be a component of the glyoxylate cycle, which allows microorganisms to grow on two carbon compounds. Enzyme assays showed that a functional malate synthase is encoded in the glcB gene of R. leguminosarum and that its expression is induced by arabinose, glycolate, and glyoxylate. An Escherichia coli aceB glcB mutant, complemented with the R. leguminosarum PCR-amplified gene, recovered malate synthase activity. A very similar genome organization of the loci containing malate synthase and flanking genes was observed in R. leguminosarum, S. meliloti, and A. tumefaciens. Pea plants inoculated with the glcB mutant or the wild-type strain showed no significant differences in nitrogen fixation. This is the first report regarding the characterization of a mutant in one of the glyoxylate cycle enzymes in the rhizobia.	2002 Oct	García-de los Santos, Alejandro; García-de los Santos, A; García-de los Santos; Morales, Alejandro; Morales, A; Morales; Baldomá, Laura; Baldomá, L; Baldomá; Clark, Scott R D; Clark, SR; Clark; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; Yost, Christopher K; Yost, CK; Yost; Hernández-Lucas, Ismael; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Aguilar, Juan; Aguilar, J; Aguilar; Hynes, Michael F; Hynes, MF; Hynes	Can J Microbiol
12209264	Mesorhizobium amorphae, a rhizobial species that nodulates Amorpha fruticosa, is native to American soils.	Amorpha fruticosa was inoculated with rhizosphere soil from Iowa, USA, and 140 rhizobia isolated from root nodules were compared with Mesorhizobium amorphae originating from Chinese soils. PCR-RFLP patterns of the 16S rRNA gene from the isolates and from M. amorphaewere the same. All isolates had a symbiotic plasmid of the same size with a single nifHgene. DNA:DNA hybridization values, DNA G+C content, and induced Nod factor patterns also were similar. We concluded that the four genotypes distinguished among 53 representative American isolates were M. amorphae. Since A. fruticosa is native to the Americas and is highly specific in its nodulation requirement, M. amorphae probably was transmitted to China.	2002 Oct	Wang, En Tao; Wang, ET; Wang; Rogel, M Antonio; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Sui, Xin Hua; Sui, XH; Sui; Chen, Wen Xin; Chen, WX; Chen; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; van Berkum, Peter; van Berkum, P; van Berkum	Arch Microbiol
12139618	Identification of a gene required for the biosynthesis of ornithine-derived lipids.	Phospholipids are the membrane-forming constituents in all living organisms. In addition to phosphorus-containing lipids, the membranes of numerous bacteria contain significant amounts of phosphorus-free polar lipids, often derived from amino acids. Although lipids derived from the amino acid ornithine are widespread among bacteria, their biosynthesis is unknown. Here, we describe the isolation of mutants of Sinorhizobium meliloti deficient in the biosynthesis of ornithine-derived lipids (OL). Complementation of such mutants with a sinorhi-zobial cosmid gene bank, subcloning of the complementing fragment and sequencing of the subclone led to the identification of a gene (olsA) coding for a presumptive acyltransferase. Amplification of this gene and its expression in OL-deficient mutant backgrounds of S. meliloti demonstrates that it is required for OL biosynthesis. An OL-deficient mutant of S. meliloti disrupted in olsA shows wild type-like growth behaviour and is capable of inducing nitrogen-fixing nodules on legume hosts. A lyso-ornithine lipid-dependent acyltransferase activity forming OL requires acyl-AcpP as the acyl donor and expression of the olsA gene.	2002 Aug	Weissenmayer, Barbara; Weissenmayer, B; Weissenmayer; Gao, Jun-Lian; Gao, JL; Gao; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	Mol Microbiol
12361275	Sinorhizobium morelense sp. nov., a Leucaena leucocephala-associated bacterium that is highly resistant to multiple antibiotics.	Sinorhizobium morelense sp. nov. is described to designate a group of bacteria isolated from root nodules of Leucaena leucocephala. S. morelense shows 98% 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity to some Sinorhizobium species and to Ensifer adhaerens. This novel species is distinguished from other Sinorhizobium species and from E. adhaerens by DNA-DNA hybridization, 165 rRNA gene restriction fragments and sequence and some distinctive phenotypic features. Strains of this species are highly resistant to some antibiotics, such as carbenicillin (1 mg ml(-1)), kanamycin (500 microg ml(-1)) and erythromycin (300 microg ml(-1)). They do not form nodules, but a nodulating strain, Lc57, is closely related to the novel species. Strain Lc04T (= LMG 21331T = CFN E1007T) is designated as the type strain of this novel species.	2002 Sep	Wang, En Tao; Wang, ET; Wang; Tan, Zhi Yuan; Tan, ZY; Tan; Willems, Anne; Willems, A; Willems; Fernández-López, Manuel; Fernández-López, M; Fernández-López; Reinhold-Hurek, Barbara; Reinhold-Hurek, B; Reinhold-Hurek; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
12115061	Diversity of rhizobia from nodules of the leguminous tree Gliricidia sepium, a natural host of Rhizobium tropici.	The Rhizobium species that nodulate the legume tree Gliricidia sepium were analyzed by phenotypic characteristics (including nodule formation in different hosts), PCR-RFLP patterns and sequences of 16S rRNA genes, multilocus enzyme electrophoresis, and plasmid patterns. Strains of Rhizobium tropici type A and B, Sinorhizobium spp., and Rhizobium etli bv. phaseoli were encountered in G. sepium nodules and their presence depended on the site sampled.	2002 Aug	Acosta-Durán, Carlos; Acosta-Durán, C; Acosta-Durán; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Arch Microbiol
12107597	Analysis of the cellular functions of Escherichia coli operons and their conservation in Bacillus subtilis.	The common assumption of operons as composed of genes that cooperate in a biological process is confirmed here by showing that Escherichia coli operons tend to be composed of genes that belong to the same general class of cellular function. Furthermore, the comparison between the genomic organization of E. coli and that of Bacillus subtilis shows that the genes that are homologous to genes that belong to experimentally characterized E. coli operons tend to cluster in neighboring regions of the genome. This tendency is greater for the subset of E. coli operons whose genes belong to a single functional class. These observations indicate strong evolutionary pressure that, translated into functional constraints, leads to the inclusion of many essential functions in conserved operons and clusters in these two distant species.	2002 Aug	de Daruvar, Antoine; de Daruvar, A; de Daruvar; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Valencia, Alfonso; Valencia, A; Valencia	J Mol Evol
12118889	Rhizobium etli mutant modulates carbon and nitrogen metabolism in Phaseolus vulgaris nodules.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the biochemical events in root nodules which lead to increased yield when bean is inoculated with a Rhizobium etli mutant (CFN037) having increased respiratory capacity. CFN037-inoculated plants had 22% more nitrogen (N) than did wild-type (CE3)-inoculated plants. Root nodule enzymes involved in nodule carbon and nitrogen assimilation as well as in ureides and amides synthesis were assessed in plants inoculated with CFN037 and the CE3. Our results show that the xylem ureides content was lower while that of amino acids was higher in CFN037- compared with CE3-inoculated plants. Supporting these results, enzymes involved in ureide synthesis were reduced while activity of aspartate aminotransferase, glutamate synthase, sucrose synthase, and glucose-6-P dehydrogenase were increased in CFN037-induced nodules. Glutamate synthase and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase transcripts were detected early in the development of nodules induced by CFN037 compared with CE3. However, plants inoculated with strain CE3-vhb, which express the Vitreoscilla sp. hemoglobin and also displays increased respiratory capacity, did not have altered ureide transport in N2-fixing plants. The data suggest that inoculation with special selected mutant strains of R. etli can modulate nodule N assimilation and N transport compounds.	2002 Jul	Silvente, Sonia; Silvente, S; Silvente; Blanco, Lourdes; Blanco, L; Blanco; Camas, Alberto; Camas, A; Camas; Ortega, José-Luis; Ortega, JL; Ortega; Ramírez, Mario; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Lara-Flores, Miguel; Lara-Flores, M; Lara-Flores	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
12057950	The Rhizobium etli cyaC product: characterization of a novel adenylate cyclase class.	Adenylate cyclases (ACs) catalyze the formation of 3',5'-cyclic AMP (cAMP) from ATP. A novel AC-encoding gene, cyaC, was isolated from Rhizobium etli by phenotypic complementation of an Escherichia coli cya mutant. The functionality of the cyaC gene was corroborated by its ability to restore cAMP accumulation in an E. coli cya mutant. Further, overexpression of a malE::cyaC fusion protein allowed the detection of significant AC activity levels in cell extracts of an E. coli cya mutant. CyaC is unrelated to any known AC or to any other protein exhibiting a currently known function. Thus, CyaC represents the first member of a novel class of ACs (class VI). Hypothetical genes of unknown function similar to cyaC have been identified in the genomes of the related bacterial species Mesorhizobium loti, Sinorhizobium meliloti, and Agrobacterium tumefaciens. The cyaC gene is cotranscribed with a gene similar to ohr of Xanthomonas campestris and is expressed only in the presence of organic hydroperoxides. The physiological performance of an R. etli cyaC mutant was indistinguishable from that of the wild-type parent strain both under free-living conditions and during symbiosis.	2002 Jul	Téllez-Sosa, Juan; Téllez-Sosa, J; Téllez-Sosa; Soberón, Nora; Soberón, N; Soberón; Vega-Segura, Alicia; Vega-Segura, A; Vega-Segura; Torres-Márquez, María E; Torres-Márquez, ME; Torres-Márquez; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	J Bacteriol
11976134	Conservation of plasmid-encoded traits among bean-nodulating Rhizobium species.	Rhizobium etli type strain CFN42 contains six plasmids. We analyzed the distribution of genetic markers from some of these plasmids in bean-nodulating strains belonging to different species (Rhizobium etli, Rhizobium gallicum, Rhizobium giardinii, Rhizobium leguminosarum, and Sinorhizobium fredii). Our results indicate that independent of geographic origin, R. etli strains usually share not only the pSym plasmid but also other plasmids containing symbiosis-related genes, with a similar organization. In contrast, strains belonging to other bean-nodulating species seem to have acquired only the pSym plasmid from R. etli.	2002 May	Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; García-de los Santos, Alejandro; García-de los Santos, A; García-de los Santos; Sanjuan-Pinilla, Julio M; Sanjuan-Pinilla, JM; Sanjuan-Pinilla; Olivares, José; Olivares, J; Olivares; Sanjuan, Juan; Sanjuan, J; Sanjuan	Appl Environ Microbiol
12036273	Expression of different calmodulin genes in bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.): role of nod factor on calmodulin gene regulation.	Three calmodulin (PvCaM-1, PvCaM-2, and PvCaM-3) clones were isolated from a Phaseolus vulgaris nodule cDNA library. All clones contain the complete coding region and are 62 to 74% homologous within this region. Compared to plant CaM consensus sequences, PvCaM-2 has a novel tyrosine118 residue, representing a putative phosphorylation site. Southern analysis suggested that calmodulin is encoded by a gene family. These three CaM clones are expressed mainly in young tissues and meristems. The expression pattern of PvCaM-2 and PvCaM-3 is almost identical but different from that of PvCaM-1, suggesting that PvCaM-1 is a well-defined CaM gene, whereas PvCaM-2 and PvCaM-3 could be alleles. PvCaM clones are expressed early in nodules, and transcript levels increase from nodule primordia to nodule-like structures induced by the Nod factor. Conversely, in roots, Nod factor lowers mRNA levels of all three PvCaM clones, but especially of PvCaM-1. Inhibition of PvCaM-1 expression also is observed when 2,3,5-triiodobenzoic acid is added and is prevented when roots are treated with indole-3-acetic acid, suggesting that PvCaM-1 regulation is related to the Nod factor inhibition of polar auxin transport. These results could suggest that CaM clones do not participate in the early signaling generated by the Nod factor but do participate in early events of nodule formation.	2002 May	Camas, Alberto; Camas, A; Camas; Cárdenas, Luis; Cárdenas, L; Cárdenas; Quinto, Carmen; Quinto, C; Quinto; Lara, Miguel; Lara, M; Lara	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
11914361	AniA regulates reserve polymer accumulation and global protein expression in Rhizobium etli.	Previously, it was reported that the oxidative capacity and ability to grow on carbon sources such as pyruvate and glucose were severely diminished in the Rhizobium etli phaC::OmegaSm(r)/Sp(r) mutant CAR1, which is unable to synthesize poly-beta-hydroxybutyric acid (PHB) (M. A. Cevallos, S. Encarnación, A. Leija, Y. Mora, and J. Mora, J. Bacteriol. 178:1646-1654, 1996). By random Tn5 mutagenesis of the phaC strain, we isolated the mutants VEM57 and VEM58, both of which contained single Tn5 insertions and had recovered the ability to grow on pyruvate or glucose. Nucleotide sequencing of the region surrounding the Tn5 insertions showed that they had interrupted an open reading frame designated aniA based on its high deduced amino acid sequence identity to the aniA gene product of Sinorhizobium meliloti. R. etli aniA was located adjacent to and divergently transcribed from genes encoding the PHB biosynthetic enzymes beta-ketothiolase (PhaA) and acetoacetyl coenzyme A reductase (PhaB). An aniA::Tn5 mutant (VEM5854) was constructed and found to synthesize only 40% of the wild type level of PHB. Both VEM58 and VEM5854 produced significantly more extracellular polysaccharide than the wild type. Organic acid excretion and levels of intracellular reduced nucleotides were lowered to wild-type levels in VEM58 and VEM5854, in contrast to those of strain CAR1, which were significantly elevated. Proteome analysis of VEM58 showed a drastic alteration of protein expression, including the absence of a protein identified as PhaB. We propose that the aniA gene product plays an important role in directing carbon flow in R. etli.	2002 Apr	Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; del Carmen Vargas, María; del Carmen Vargas, M; del Carmen Vargas; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Dávalos, Araceli; Dávalos, A; Dávalos; Mendoza, Guillermo; Mendoza, G; Mendoza; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
11914362	Effect of aniA (carbon flux regulator) and PhaC (poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate synthase) mutations on pyruvate metabolism in Rhizobium etli.	The Rhizobium etli poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate synthase (PhaC) mutant SAM100 grows poorly with pyruvate as the carbon source. The inactivation of aniA, encoding a global carbon flux regulator, in SAM100 restores growth of the resulting double mutant (VEM58) on pyruvate. Pyruvate carboxylase (PYC) activity, pyc gene transcription, and holoenzyme content, which were low in SAM100, were restored in strain VEM58. The genetically engineered overexpression of PYC in SAM100 also allowed its growth on pyruvate. The possible relation between AniA, pyc transcription, and reduced-nucleotide levels is discussed.	2002 Apr	Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Araíza, Gisela; Araíza, G; Araíza; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; del Carmen Vargas, María; del Carmen Vargas, M; del Carmen Vargas; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
12030700	A N2-fixing endophytic Burkholderia sp. associated with maize plants cultivated in Mexico.	In the frame of a survey of potentially endophytic N2-fixing Burkholderia associated with maize in Mexico, its country of origin, the soil of an indigenous maize field near Oaxaca was studied. Under laboratory conditions, plant seedlings of two ancient maize varieties were used as a trap to select endophyte candidates from the soil sample. Among the N2 fixers isolated from inside plant tissues and able to grow on PCAT medium, the most abundant isolates belonged to genus Burkholderia (API 20NE, rrs sequences). Representative isolates obtained from roots and shoots of different plants appeared identical (rrs and nifH RFLP), showing that they were closely related. In addition, their 16S rDNA sequences differed from described Burkholderia species and, phylogenetically, they constituted a separate deep-branching new lineage in genus Burkholderia. This indicated that these isolates probably constituted a new species. An inoculation experiment confirmed that these N2-fixing Burkholderia isolates could densely colonize the plant tissues of maize. More isolates of this group were subsequently obtained from field-grown maize and teosinte plants. It was hypothesized that strains of this species had developed a sort of primitive symbiosis with one of their host plants, teosinte, which persisted during the domestication of teosinte into maize.	2002 Apr	Estrada, Paulina; Estrada, P; Estrada; Mavingui, Patrick; Mavingui, P; Mavingui; Cournoyer, Benoit; Cournoyer, B; Cournoyer; Fontaine, Fanette; Fontaine, F; Fontaine; Balandreau, Jacques; Balandreau, J; Balandreau; Caballero-Mellado, Jesus; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	Can J Microbiol
11975504	Comparative study of differentiation levels and valepotriate content of in vitro cultures and regenerated and wild plants of Valeriana edulis ssp.procera.	Valepotriate content levels in samples of in vitro cultures of Valeriana edulis ssp. procera were compared with those of roots and rhizomes of wild plants in the reproductive stage. Rhizomes and roots of regenerated and wild plants showed a similar valepotriate content. The data obtained support the hypothesis that valepotriate production in V. edulis spp. procera is closely related to rhizome and root differentiation. The large-scale propagation of this endangered plant may offer an attractive alternative for its production for medicinal purposes.	2002 Apr	Castillo, Patricia; Castillo, P; Castillo; Zamilpa, Alejandro; Zamilpa, A; Zamilpa; Márquez, Judith; Márquez, J; Márquez; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Lara, Miguel; Lara, M; Lara; Alvarez, Laura; Alvarez, L; Alvarez	J Nat Prod
11897025	Evaluation of thresholds for the detection of binding sites for regulatory proteins in Escherichia coli K12 DNA.	Sites in DNA that bind regulatory proteins can be detected computationally in various ways. Pattern discovery methods analyze collections of genes suspected to be co-regulated on the evidence, for example, of clustering of transcriptome data. Pattern searching methods use sequences with known binding sites to find other genes regulated by a given protein. Such computational methods are important strategies in the discovery and elaboration of regulatory networks and can provide the experimental biologist with a precise prediction of a binding site or identify a gene as a member of a set of co-regulated genes (a regulon). As more variations on such methods are published, however, thorough evaluation is necessary, as performance may differ depending on the conditions of use. Detailed evaluation also helps to improve and understand the behavior of the different methods and computational strategies.	2002	Benítez-Bellón, Esperanza; Benítez-Bellón, E; Benítez-Bellón; Moreno-Hagelsieb, Gabriel; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Genome Biol
11959430	Rhizobial acyl carrier proteins and their roles in the formation of bacterial cell-surface components that are required for the development of nitrogen-fixing root nodules on legume hosts.	Acyl carrier protein (ACP) of Escherichia coli is a small acidic protein which functions as carrier of growing acyl chains during their biosynthesis and as donor of acyl chains during transfer to target molecules. This unique ACP of E. coli is expressed constitutively. In more complex bacteria, multiple ACPs are present, indicating a channeling of pools of multi-carbon units into different biosynthetic routes. In rhizobia, for example, besides the constitutive ACP (AcpP) involved in the biosynthesis and transfer of common fatty acids, three specialized ACPs have been reported: (1) the flavonoid-inducible nodulation protein NodF, (2) AcpXL that transfers 27-hydroxyoctacosanoic acid to a sugar backbone during lipid A biosynthesis, and (3) the RkpF protein which is required for the biosynthesis of rhizobial capsular polysaccharides. All three of those specialized rhizobial ACPs are required for the biosynthesis of cell-surface molecules that play a role in establishing the symbiotic relationship between rhizobia and their legume hosts. Surprisingly, the recently sequenced genomes from Mesorhizobium loti and Sinorhizobium meliloti suggest even more candidates for ACPs in rhizobia.	2002 Mar	Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara	FEMS Microbiol Lett
11741857	Dynamics of genome architecture in Rhizobium sp. strain NGR234.	Bacterial genomes are usually partitioned in several replicons, which are dynamic structures prone to mutation and genomic rearrangements, thus contributing to genome evolution. Nevertheless, much remains to be learned about the origins and dynamics of the formation of bacterial alternative genomic states and their possible biological consequences. To address these issues, we have studied the dynamics of the genome architecture in Rhizobium sp. strain NGR234 and analyzed its biological significance. NGR234 genome consists of three replicons: the symbiotic plasmid pNGR234a (536,165 bp), the megaplasmid pNGR234b (>2,000 kb), and the chromosome (>3,700 kb). Here we report that genome analyses of cell siblings showed the occurrence of large-scale DNA rearrangements consisting of cointegrations and excisions between the three replicons. As a result, four new genomic architectures have emerged. Three consisted of the cointegrates between two replicons: chromosome-pNGR234a, chromosome-pNGR234b, and pNGR234a-pNGR234b. The other consisted of a cointegrate of the three replicons (chromosome-pNGR234a-pNGR234b). Cointegration and excision of pNGR234a with either the chromosome or pNGR234b were studied and found to proceed via a Campbell-type mechanism, mediated by insertion sequence elements. We provide evidence showing that changes in the genome architecture did not alter the growth and symbiotic proficiency of Rhizobium derivatives.	2002 Jan	Mavingui, Patrick; Mavingui, P; Mavingui; Flores, Margarita; Flores, M; Flores; Guo, Xianwu; Guo, X; Guo; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; Perret, Xavier; Perret, X; Perret; Broughton, William J; Broughton, WJ; Broughton; Palacios, Rafael; Palacios, R; Palacios	J Bacteriol
12066843	Operon conservation from the point of view of Escherichia coli, and inference of functional interdependence of gene products from genome context.	We have previously demonstrated that genes within experimentally characterized operons of Escherichia coli are conserved together in other genomes more frequently than genes at the borders of transcription units. Here we expand the analyses and show that, as the phylogenetic distance of the genomes compared increases, the genes remaining together must belong to genes associated into operons in other prokaryotes regardless of the operon organization of the corresponding orthologous gene pair of E. coli. At the same time, we show that the observed tendencies of genes within operons to keep very short inter-genic distances in E. coli, is the same in any other prokaryote whose genome is currently available. We also show the relationship between our analyses of conservation and the inference of functional relationships from genomic context.	2002	Moreno-Hagelsieb, Gabriel; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	In Silico Biol
11752253	The EcoCyc Database.	EcoCyc is an organism-specific pathway/genome database that describes the metabolic and signal-transduction pathways of Escherichia coli, its enzymes, its transport proteins and its mechanisms of transcriptional control of gene expression. EcoCyc is queried using the Pathway Tools graphical user interface, which provides a wide variety of query operations and visualization tools. EcoCyc is available at http://ecocyc.org/.	2002 Jan	Karp, Peter D; Karp, PD; Karp; Riley, Monica; Riley, M; Riley; Saier, Milton; Saier, M; Saier; Paulsen, Ian T; Paulsen, IT; Paulsen; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Paley, Suzanne M; Paley, SM; Paley; Pellegrini-Toole, Alida; Pellegrini-Toole, A; Pellegrini-Toole; Bonavides, César; Bonavides, C; Bonavides; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro	Nucleic Acids Res
11717256	Regulation of gene expression in response to oxygen in Rhizobium etli: role of FnrN in fixNOQP expression and in symbiotic nitrogen fixation.	Previously, we reported finding duplicated fixNOQP operons in Rhizobium etli CFN42. One of these duplicated operons is located in the symbiotic plasmid (fixNOQPd), while the other is located in a cryptic plasmid (fixNOQPf). Although a novel FixL-FixKf regulatory cascade participates in microaerobic expression of both fixNOQP duplicated operons, we found that a mutation in fixL eliminates fixNOQPf expression but has only a moderate effect on expression of fixNOQPd. This suggests that there are differential regulatory controls. Interestingly, only the fixNOQPd operon was essential for symbiotic nitrogen fixation (L. Girard, S. Brom, A. Dávalos, O. Lopez, M. Soberón, and D. Romero, Mol. Plant-Microbe Interact. 13:1283-1292, 2000). Searching for potential candidates responsible for the differential expression, we characterized two fnrN homologs (encoding transcriptional activators of the cyclic AMP receptor protein [CRP]-Fnr family) in R. etli CFN42. One of these genes (fnrNd) is located on the symbiotic plasmid, while the other (fnrNchr) is located on the chromosome. Analysis of the expression of the fnrN genes using transcriptional fusions with lacZ showed that the two fnrN genes are differentially regulated, since only fnrNd is expressed in microaerobic cultures of the wild-type strain while fnrNchr is negatively controlled by FixL. Mutagenesis of the two fnrN genes showed that both genes participate, in conjunction with FixL-FixKf, in the microaerobic induction of the fixNOQPd operon. Participation of these genes is also seen during the symbiotic process, in which mutations in fnrNd and fnrNchr, either singly or in combination, lead to reductions in nitrogen fixation. Therefore, R. etli employs a regulatory circuit for induction of the fixNOQPd operon that involves at least three transcriptional regulators of the CRP-Fnr family. This regulatory circuit may be important for ensuring optimal production of the cbb(3), terminal oxidase during symbiosis.	2001 Dec	Lopez, O; Lopez, O; Lopez; Morera, C; Morera, C; Morera; Miranda-Rios, J; Miranda-Rios, J; Miranda-Rios; Girard, L; Girard, L; Girard; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Soberón, M; Soberón, M; Soberón	J Bacteriol
11702077	Cloning and characterization of the pyruvate carboxylase from Sinorhizobium meliloti Rm1021.	The gene encoding pyruvate carboxylase (pyc) was isolated from a Sinorhizobium meliloti Rm1021 cosmid bank by complementation of a Rhizobium tropici pyc mutant. PYC-negative mutants of S. meliloti Rm1021 were isolated by transposon mutagenesis and were unable to grow with glucose or pyruvate as sole carbon sources, but were symbiotically competent in combination with alfalfa plants. PYC activity assays, pyc::lacZ gene fusion studies and an in vivo biotinylation assay showed that PYC activity in S. meliloti was dependent mainly on biotin availability and not on changes in gene transcription. The subunit and holo-enzyme molecular masses of the S. meliloti PYC indicated that the enzyme was an alpha4 homotetramer. The S. meliloti PYC had a high apparent Ka (0.23 mM) for the allosteric activator acetyl-CoA and was product-inhibited by sub-millimolar concentrations of oxaloacetate. In contrast to other bacterial alpha4-PYCs which have been characterized, the S. meliloti enzyme was not strongly inhibited by L-aspartate.	2001 Nov	Dunn, M F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Araíza, G; Araíza, G; Araíza; Finan, T M; Finan, TM; Finan	Arch Microbiol
11718894	Cloning and expression analysis of hemoglobin genes from maize (Zea mays ssp. mays) and teosinte (Zea mays ssp. parviglumis).	With the exception of barley and rice, little is known about the existence of hemoglobins (Hbs) in cereals. This work reports the cloning and analysis of hb genes from maize (Zea mays ssp. mays) and teosinte (Zea mays ssp. parviglumis). Coding sequences of maize and teosinte hb genes (hbm and hbt, respectively) are highly similar to each other and are interrupted by three introns located at identical positions as other plant hb genes. Sequences of predicted Hbm and Hbt proteins are identical. The hydropathic profile of Hbm and Hbt is highly similar to that of rice Hb1, suggesting that Hbm, Hbt and Hb1 have the same tertiary structure and biochemical properties. Expression analysis showed that low levels of Hb transcripts, but considerable levels of Hb proteins exist in maize embryonic organs. No Hb transcripts and proteins were detected in teosinte embryonic organs. Low levels of Hb proteins, but no Hb transcripts, were detected in maize and teosinte vegetative organs. These observations suggest that the regulation of hb genes is different in maize and teosinte embryonic organs, and that the expression of hb genes is down- or up-regulated in maize and teosinte, respectively, from germination to vegetative growing.	2001 Nov	Aréchaga-Ocampo, E; Aréchaga-Ocampo, E; Aréchaga-Ocampo; Saenz-Rivera, J; Saenz-Rivera, J; Saenz-Rivera; Sarath, G; Sarath, G; Sarath; Klucas, R V; Klucas, RV; Klucas; Arredondo-Peter, R; Arredondo-Peter, R; Arredondo-Peter	Biochim Biophys Acta
11604446	Transgenic tobacco plants that overexpress alfalfa NADH-glutamate synthase have higher carbon and nitrogen content.	This work reports the characterization of transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) plants that constitutively overexpress NADH-GOGAT. Three independent transformants, designated GOS10, GOS13 and GOS19 (for GOGAT sense), with stable integration of the chimeric alfalfa NADH-GOGAT gene fused to the CaMV 35S promoter were studied. The transgene was stably integrated and inherited by the progeny. In these GOS lines, the expression of NADH-GOGAT mRNA and protein was detected at low levels in roots and leaves, while the expression of the host tobacco NADH-GOGAT gene was nearly undetectable. The roots of GOS lines showed an elevated (15-40%) enzyme activity as compared to control plants. When GOS plants were grown under greenhouse conditions and fed with either nitrate or ammonium as the sole nitrogen source, they showed higher total carbon and nitrogen content in shoots and increased shoot dry weight when plants were entering into the flowering stage, as compared to control plants. The observed phenotype of GOS plants was interpreted as reflecting a higher capacity to assimilate nitrogen due to a higher NADH-GOGAT activity.	2001 Nov	Chichkova, S; Chichkova, S; Chichkova; Arellano, J; Arellano, J; Arellano; Vance, C P; Vance, CP; Vance; Hernández, G; Hernández, G; Hernández	J Exp Bot
11566387	Genetic diversity of rhizobia isolated from Astragalus adsurgens growing in different geographical regions of China.	The genetic diversity among 95 isolates from Astragalus adsurgens was investigated using molecular biological methods. All of the isolates and 24 reference strains could be differentiated by AFLP, REP-, ERIC- and BOX-PCR fingerprinting analysis. By cluster analysis of the data, 31 AFLP and 38 Rep-PCR genomic groups were delineated, indicating considerable genetic diversity among the isolates. Fifty-four representative strains were further analyzed by RFLP of PCR-amplified 16S and 23S rDNA, revealing 26 rDNA genotypes among the isolates. The phylogenetic relationship of the isolates was determined by partial sequencing of 16S rRNA genes of 16 strains. The results suggest that the A. adsurgens rhizobia belong to the genera Agrobacterium, Mesorhizobium, Rhizobium and Sinorhizobium.	2001 Oct	Gao, J; Gao, J; Gao; Terefework, Z; Terefework, Z; Terefework; Chen, W; Chen, W; Chen; Lindström, K; Lindström, K; Lindström	J Biotechnol
11566384	Natural endophytic association between Rhizobium etli and maize (Zea mays L.).	Maize (Zea mays) and bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) have been traditionally grown in association for thousands of years in Mesoamerica. From surface sterilized maize roots, we have isolated over 60 Rhizobium strains that correspond to Rhizobium etli bv. phaseoli (the main symbiont of bean) on the basis of 16S rRNA gene restriction patterns, metabolic enzyme electropherotypes, organization of nif genes, and the ability to nodulate beans. The colonization capacity of some of the isolates was tested with an unimproved maize cultivar and with 30 maize land races. Increases in plant dry weight upon R. etli inoculation were recorded with some of the land races, and these increases may be related to plant growth promotion effects. Additionally, from within maize grown in monoculture we have also recovered R. etli isolates recognizable by their 16S rRNA gene types, which lack nif genes and are incapable of nodulating bean. These strains are presumed to correspond to the earlier described non-symbiotic R. etli obtained from bean rhizosphere.	2001 Oct	Gutiérrez-Zamora, M L; Gutiérrez-Zamora, ML; Gutiérrez-Zamora; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	J Biotechnol
11566392	Novel pathway for phosphatidylcholine biosynthesis in bacteria associated with eukaryotes.	Phosphatidylcholine (PC) is the major membrane-forming phospholipid in eukaryotes and can be synthesised by either of two pathways, the CDP-choline pathway or the methylation pathway. Many prokaryotes lack PC, but it can be found in significant amounts in membranes of distantly related bacteria such as Rhizobacteria and Spirochetes. Enzymatic methylation of phosphatidylethanolamine via the methylation pathway was thought to be the only biosynthetic pathway to yield PC in bacteria. However, a novel choline-dependent pathway for PC biosynthesis has been discovered in Sinorhizobium meliloti. In this pathway, a novel enzymatic activity, PC synthase, condenses choline directly with CDP-diacylglyceride to form PC in one step. Surprisingly, genomes of some pathogens (Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Borrelia burgdorferi and Legionella pneumophila) contain genes similar to the sinorhizobial gene for phosphatidylcholine synthase. We, therefore, suggest that the new PC synthase pathway is present in a number of bacteria displaying symbiotic or pathogenic associations with eukaryotes and that the eukaryotic host functions as the provider of choline for this pathway.	2001 Oct	López-Lara, I M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, O; Geiger, O; Geiger	J Biotechnol
11679078	RepA negatively autoregulates the transcription of the repABC operon of the Rhizobium etli symbiotic plasmid basic replicon.	The basic replicon of Rhizobium etli CE3, like other members of the repABC plasmid family, is constituted by the repABC operon. RepC is essential for replication, and RepA and RepB play a role in plasmid segregation. It has been shown that deletion derivatives lacking the repAB genes have an increased copy number, indicating that these genes participate in the control of plasmid copy number. RepA is also a trans-incompatibility factor. To understand the regulation of the repABC operon, in this paper: (i) the transcription start site of the repABC operon was determined; (ii) the promoter region was identified by site-directed mutagenesis of the putative -35 and -10 hexameric elements; and (iii) RepA was recognized as a negative regulator of the transcription of the repABC operon.	2001 Oct	Ramírez-Romero, M A; Ramírez-Romero, MA; Ramírez-Romero; Téllez-Sosa, J; Téllez-Sosa, J; Téllez-Sosa; Barrios, H; Barrios, H; Barrios; Pérez-Oseguera, A; Pérez-Oseguera, A; Pérez-Oseguera; Rosas, V; Rosas, V; Rosas; Cevallos, M A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	Mol Microbiol
11467726	Identification of a system that allows a Rhizobium tropici dctA mutant to grow on succinate, but not on other C4-dicarboxylates.	A defined insertion mutant of a gene encoding a homolog of the rhizobial C4-dicarboxylate permease (dctA) was constructed in Rhizobium tropici strain CIAT899. This mutant (GA1) was unable to grow on fumarate or malate; however, in contrast with other rhizobial dctA mutants, it retained a limited ability to grow on succinate with ammonia as a nitrogen source. Our results suggest the presence of a novel succinate-specific transport system in R. tropici. Biochemical characterization indicated that this alternative transport system in GAI is active and dependent on an energized membrane. It was also induced by succinate and aspartate, and was repressed by glucose and glycerol. Bean plants inoculated with GA1 showed a reduced nitrogen-fixing ability, achieving only 29% of the acetylene reduction activity determined in CIAT899 strain nodules, 33 days after inoculation. Also, bean plants inoculated with GA1 had reduced shoot dry weight compared with plants inoculated with the wild-type strain.	2001 Jun	Batista, S; Batista, S; Batista; Catalán, A I; Catalán, AI; Catalán; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Aguilar, O M; Aguilar, OM; Aguilar; Martínez-Drets, G; Martínez-Drets, G; Martínez-Drets	Can J Microbiol
11523004	Common history at the origin of the position-function correlation in transcriptional regulators in archaea and bacteria.	Regulatory proteins in Escherichia coli with a helix-turn-helix (HTH) DNA binding motif show a position-function correlation such that repressors have this motif predominantly at the N terminus, whereas activators have the motif at the C-terminus extreme. Using this initial collection we identified by sequence comparison the exhaustive set of transcriptional regulators in 17 bacterial and 6 archaeal genomes. This enlarged set shows the same position-function correlation. The main question we address is whether this correlation is the result of common origin in evolution or the result of convergence. Evidence is presented supporting a common history at the origin of this correlation. We show the existence of a supergroup of eight repressor protein families sharing a conserved extended sequence comprising the classic HTH. Two of these repressor families (MarR and AsnC) originated before the divergence of Archaea and Bacteria. They are proposed at the origin of HTH-bearing transcriptional regulators currently present in Bacteria. The group of LysR proteins, with the HTH also at the N terminus, offers a control to the argument, since it shows clearly distinctive structural, functional, and evolutionary properties. This group of activator proteins, suggested to have originated within the Bacteria, has an advantageous gene organization to facilitate its horizontal transfer-used to conquer some Archaea-as well as negative autoregulation convenient for homeostasis, all of which agrees with this being the largest family in Bacteria. These results suggest that if shuffling of motifs occurred in Bacteria, it occurred only early in the history of these proteins, as opposed to what is observed in eukaryotic regulators.	2001 Sep	Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	J Mol Evol
11425750	Nitrogen-fixing nodules with Ensifer adhaerens harboring Rhizobium tropici symbiotic plasmids.	Ensifer adhaerens is a soil bacterium that attaches to other bacteria and may cause lysis of these other bacteria. Based on the sequence of its small-subunit rRNA gene, E. adhaerens is related to Sinorhizobium spp. E. adhaerens ATCC 33499 did not nodulate Phaseolus vulgaris (bean) or Leucaena leucocephala, but with symbiotic plasmids from Rhizobium tropici CFN299 it formed nitrogen-fixing nodules on both hosts. The nodule isolates were identified as E. adhaerens isolates by growth on selective media.	2001 Jul	Rogel, M A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Kuykendall, L D; Kuykendall, LD; Kuykendall; Balkwill, D L; Balkwill, DL; Balkwill; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero	Appl Environ Microbiol
11491326	Novel nitrogen-fixing acetic acid bacteria, Gluconacetobacter johannae sp. nov. and Gluconacetobacter azotocaptans sp. nov., associated with coffee plants.	Diazotrophic bacteria were isolated, in two different years, from the rhizosphere and rhizoplane of coffee (Coffea arabica L.) plants cultivated in Mexico; they were designated as type DOR and type SAd isolates. They showed characteristics of the family Acetobacteraceae, having some features in common with Gluconacetobacter (formerly Acetobacter) diazotrophicus, the only known N2-fixing species of the acetic acid bacteria, but they differed from this species with regard to several characteristics. Type DOR isolates can be differentiated phenotypically from type SAd isolates. Type DOR isolates and type SAd isolates can both be differentiated from Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus by their growth features on culture media, their use of amino acids as nitrogen sources and their carbon-source usage. These results, together with the electrophoretic mobility patterns of metabolic enzymes and amplified rDNA restriction analysis, suggested that the type DOR and type SAd isolates represent two novel N2-fixing species. Comparative analysis of the 16S rRNA sequences revealed that strains CFN-Cf55T (type DOR isolate) and CFN-Ca54T (type SAd isolate) were closer to Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus (both strains had sequence similarities of 98.3%) than to Gluconacetobacter liquefaciens, Gluconacetobacter sacchari (similarities < 98%) or any other acetobacteria. Strain CFN-Cf55T exhibited low levels of DNA-DNA reassociation with type SAd isolates (mean 42%) and strain CFN-Ca54T exhibited mean DNA-DNA reassociation of 39.5% with type DOR isolates. Strains CFN-Cf55T and CFN-Ca54T exhibited very low DNA reassociation levels, 7-21%, with other closely related acetobacterial species. On the basis of these results, two novel N2-fixing species are proposed for the family Acetobacteraceae, Gluconacetobacter johannae sp. nov. (for the type DOR isolates), with strain CFN-Cf55T (= ATCC 700987T = DSM 13595T) as the type strain, and Gluconacetobacter azotocaptans sp. nov. (for the type SAd isolates), with strain CFN-Ca54T (= ATCC 70098ST = DSM 13594T) as the type strain.	2001 Jul	Fuentes-Ramírez, L E; Fuentes-Ramírez, LE; Fuentes-Ramírez; Bustillos-Cristales, R; Bustillos-Cristales, R; Bustillos-Cristales; Tapia-Hernández, A; Tapia-Hernández, A; Tapia-Hernández; Jiménez-Salgado, T; Jiménez-Salgado, T; Jiménez-Salgado; Wang, E T; Wang, ET; Wang; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
11448759	Synthesis of hemoglobins in rice (Oryza sativa var. Jackson) plants growing in normal and stress conditions.	In rice (Oryza sativa var. Jackson) at least three copies of hemoglobin (hb) gene exist. Rice hb1 and hb2 genes are differentially expressed in roots and leaves from mature plants. We used polyclonal antibodies raised to recombinant rice Hb1 and Western blotting to analyze the synthesis of Hbs in rice plants growing under normal or stress conditions. Results showed that rice Hbs are synthesized in coleoptiles, seminal roots and embryos from seeds germinated for 6 days, and also in leaves and roots from plants 2-14 weeks after germination. Analysis of Hb synthesis in stressed rice showed that: (i) level of Hbs was higher in etiolated than control plants, (ii) level of Hbs increased in roots from flooded rice, and (iii) level of Hbs did not change under oxidative (H(2)O(2)), nitrosative (SNP) and hormonal (2,4-D) stresses. These results suggest that the effect of light withdrawal in etiolated leaves and O(2)-limiting conditions in flooded roots, but not oxidative, nitrosative and hormonal stresses, modulate the synthesis of rice Hbs.	2001 Jul	Lira-Ruan, V; Lira-Ruan, V; Lira-Ruan; Sarath, G; Sarath, G; Sarath; Klucas, R V.; Klucas, RV; Klucas; Arredondo-Peter, R; Arredondo-Peter, R; Arredondo-Peter	Plant Sci
11716972	VIR.II: a new interface with the antibody sequences in the Kabat database.	The Kabat database is the source of information par excellence on antibody sequences. In 1995, we developed an interface with the Kabat database, called VIR. VIR has been very useful in conducting studies aiming to find structure-function relationships in antibodies. Here we report a new version adapted to the World Wide Web, called VIR.II. VIR.II allows searches by type of chain (V(H) or V(L)), by species, and by specificity. The species are selected using a pulldown menu, whereas the specificities can be selected from a list containing the unique specificities reported in the Kabat database. These facilities avoid mistakes and redundancies in the searches. Another feature, and probably the most important one, is that VIR.II introduces a classification of specificities in terms of the chemical and biochemical nature of the antigen, like anti-protein, anti-peptide, anti-hapten, etc. This classification has been useful in discovering patterns in the antigen-binding site of antibodies that correlate with the type of antigen the antibody interacts with. To illustrate this, while showing the capabilities of VIR.II, we analyze all the murine anti-peptide and anti-protein antibody sequences compiled as of July, 2000 in the Kabat database.	2001 Jul-Aug	Ramirez-Benitez, M del C; Ramirez-Benitez, Mdel C; Ramirez-Benitez; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb; Almagro, J C; Almagro, JC; Almagro	Biosystems
11375196	Burkholderia, a genus rich in plant-associated nitrogen fixers with wide environmental and geographic distribution.	The genus Burkholderia comprises 19 species, including Burkholderia vietnamiensis which is the only known N(2)-fixing species of this bacterial genus. The first isolates of B. vietnamiensis were recovered from the rhizosphere of rice plants grown in a phytotron, but its existence in natural environments and its geographic distribution were not reported. In the present study, most N(2)-fixing isolates recovered from the environment of field-grown maize and coffee plants cultivated in widely separated regions of Mexico were phenotypically identified as B. cepacia using the API 20NE system. Nevertheless, a number of these isolates recovered from inside of maize roots, as well as from the rhizosphere and rhizoplane of maize and coffee plants, showed similar or identical features to those of B. vietnamiensis TVV75(T). These features include nitrogenase activity with 10 different carbon sources, identical or very similar nifHDK hybridization patterns, very similar protein electrophoregrams, identical amplified 16S rDNA restriction (ARDRA) profiles, and levels of DNA-DNA reassociation higher than 70% with total DNA from strain TVV75(T). Although the ability to fix N(2) is not reported to be a common feature among the known species of the genus Burkholderia, the results obtained show that many diazotrophic Burkholderia isolates analyzed showed phenotypic and genotypic features different from those of the known N(2)-fixing species B. vietnamiensis as well as from those of B. kururiensis, a bacterium identified in the present study as a diazotrophic species. DNA-DNA reassociation assays confirmed the existence of N(2)-fixing Burkholderia species different from B. vietnamiensis. In addition, this study shows the wide geographic distribution and substantial capability of N(2)-fixing Burkholderia spp. for colonizing diverse host plants in distantly separated environments.	2001 Jun	Estrada-De Los Santos, P; Estrada-De Los Santos, P; Estrada-De Los Santos; Bustillos-Cristales, R; Bustillos-Cristales, R; Bustillos-Cristales; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	Appl Environ Microbiol
11282972	A comparative genomics approach to prediction of new members of regulons.	Identifying the complete transcriptional regulatory network for an organism is a major challenge. For each regulatory protein, we want to know all the genes it regulates, that is, its regulon. Examples of known binding sites can be used to estimate the binding specificity of the protein and to predict other binding sites. However, binding site predictions can be unreliable because determining the true specificity of the protein is difficult because of the considerable variability of binding sites. Because regulatory systems tend to be conserved through evolution, we can use comparisons between species to increase the reliability of binding site predictions. In this article, an approach is presented to evaluate the computational predictions of regulatory sites. We combine the prediction of transcription units having orthologous genes with the prediction of transcription factor binding sites based on probabilistic models. We augment the sets of genes in Escherichia coli that are expected to be regulated by two transcription factors, the cAMP receptor protein and the fumarate and nitrate reduction regulatory protein, through a comparison with the Haemophilus influenzae genome. At the same time, we learned more about the regulatory networks of H. influenzae, a species with much less experimental knowledge than E. coli. By studying orthologous genes subject to regulation by the same transcription factor, we also gained understanding of the evolution of the entire regulatory systems.	2001 Apr	Tan, K; Tan, K; Tan; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Stormo, G D; Stormo, GD; Stormo	Genome Res
11432923	Over-expression of cytosolic glutamine synthetase increases photosynthesis and growth at low nitrogen concentrations.	Nitrogen, which is a major limiting nutrient for plant growth, is assimilated as ammonium by the concerted action of glutamine synthetase (GS) and glutamate synthase (GOGAT). GS catalyses the critical incorporation of inorganic ammonium into the amino acid glutamine. Two types of GS isozymes, located in the cytosol (GS1) and in the chloroplast (GS2) have been identified in plants. Tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) transformants, over-expressing GS1 driven by the constitutive CaMV 35S promoter were analysed. GS in leaves of GS-5 and GS-8 plants was up-regulated, at the level of RNA and proteins. These transgenic plants had six times higher leaf GS activity than controls. Under optimum nitrogen fertilization conditions there was no effect of GS over-expression on photosynthesis or growth. However, under nitrogen starvation the GS transgenics had c. 70% higher shoot and c. 100% greater root dry weight as well as 50% more leaf area than low nitrogen controls. This was achieved by the maintenance of photosynthesis at rates indistinguishable from plants under high nitrogen, while photosynthesis in control plants was inhibited by 40-50% by nitrogen deprivation. It was demonstrated that manipulation of GS activity has the potential to maintain crop photosynthetic productivity while reducing nitrogen fertilization and the concomitant pollution.	2001 May	Fuentes, S I; Fuentes, SI; Fuentes; Allen, D J; Allen, DJ; Allen; Ortiz-Lopez, A; Ortiz-Lopez, A; Ortiz-Lopez; Hernández, G; Hernández, G; Hernández	J Exp Bot
11275307	Transcription unit conservation in the three domains of life: a perspective from Escherichia coli.	Here we address the question of the degree to which genes within experimentally characterized operons in one organism (Escherichia coli) are conserved in other genomes. We found that two genes adjacent within an operon are more likely both to have an ortholog in other organisms, regardless of relative position, than genes adjacent on the same strand but in two different transcription units. They are also more likely to occur next to, or fused to, one another in other genomes. Genes frequently conserved adjacent to each other, especially among evolutionarily distant species, must be part of the same transcription unit in most of them.	2001 Apr	Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb; Treviño, V; Treviño, V; Treviño; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda; Smith, T F; Smith, TF; Smith; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Trends Genet
11251836	Phosphatidylcholine levels in Bradyrhizobium japonicum membranes are critical for an efficient symbiosis with the soybean host plant.	Phosphatidylcholine (PC), the major membrane phospholipid in eukaryotes, is found in only some bacteria including members of the family Rhizobiaceae. For this reason, it has long been speculated that rhizobial PC might be required for a successful interaction of rhizobia with their legume host plants in order to allow the formation of nitrogen-fixing root nodules. A major pathway for PC formation in prokaryotes involves a threefold methylation of the precursor phosphatidylethanolamine (PE). Here, we report on the isolation of a Bradyrhizobium japonicum gene (pmtA) encoding the phospholipid N-methyltransferase PmtA. Upon expression of the bradyrhizobial pmtA gene in Escherichia coli, predominantly monomethylphosphatidylethanolamine was formed from PE. PmtA-deficient B. japonicum mutants still produced low levels of PC by a second methylation pathway. The amount of PC formed in such mutants (6% of total phospholipids) was greatly decreased compared with the wild type (52% of total phospholipids). Root nodules of soybean plants infected with B. japonicum pmtA mutants showed a nitrogen fixation activity of only 18% of the wild-type level. The interior colour of the nodules was beige instead of red, suggesting decreased amounts of leghaemoglobin. Moreover, ultrastructure analysis of these nodules demonstrated a greatly reduced number of bacteroids within infected plant cells. These data suggest that the biosynthesis of wild-type amounts of PC are required to allow for an efficient symbiotic interaction of B. japonicum with its soybean host plant.	2001 Mar	Minder, A C; Minder, AC; Minder; de Rudder, K E; de Rudder, KE; de Rudder; Narberhaus, F; Narberhaus, F; Narberhaus; Fischer, H M; Fischer, HM; Fischer; Hennecke, H; Hennecke, H; Hennecke; Geiger, O; Geiger, O; Geiger	Mol Microbiol
11277432	The nodulation protein NodG shows the enzymatic activity of an 3-oxoacyl-acyl carrier protein reductase.	The acyl carrier protein NodF is required for the synthesis of unusual polyunsaturated fatty acids that confer specificity to lipochitin oligosaccharide nodulation (Nod) factors of Rhizobium leguminosarum. In this study, homogeneous NodF protein was used as a ligand to identify proteins of R. leguminosarum that specifically interact with NodF and presumably are involved in the biosynthesis or transfer of the unusual fatty acids. The N-terminal amino acid sequence of a 29-kDa protein that interacts strongly with NodF revealed high similarity to NodG of Rhizobium sp. N33 and to NodG of Sinorhizobium meliloti We cloned and sequenced the gene coding for the NodG-like protein of R. leguminosarum and found it to be the product of the constitutively expressed gene fabG. FabG is the 3-oxoacyl-acyl carrier protein reductase that catalyzes the first reduction step in each cycle of fatty acid elongation. FabG of R. leguminosarum and NodG of Rhizobium sp. N33 were expressed in Escherichia coli. In both cases, the purified protein showed 3-oxoacyl-acyl carrier protein reductase activity in vitro. Therefore, NodG has the same biochemical function as FabG, and the high degree of similarity at the protein and DNA level suggest that nodG is a duplication of the housekeeping genefabG.	2001 Mar	López-Lara, I M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, O; Geiger, O; Geiger	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
11157280	Characterization of rhizobial isolates of Phaseolus vulgaris by staircase electrophoresis of low-molecular-weight RNA.	Low-molecular-weight (LMW) RNA molecules were analyzed to characterize rhizobial isolates that nodulate the common bean growing in Spain. Since LMW RNA profiles, determined by staircase electrophoresis, varied across the rhizobial species nodulating beans, we demonstrated that bean isolates recovered from Spanish soils presumptively could be characterized as Rhizobium etli, Rhizobium gallicum, Rhizobium giardinii, Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae and bv. trifolii, and Sinorhizobium fredii.	2001 Feb	Velázquez, E; Velázquez, E; Velázquez; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Rodríguez-Navarro, D N; Rodríguez-Navarro, DN; Rodríguez-Navarro; Trujillo, M E; Trujillo, ME; Trujillo; Daza, A; Daza, A; Daza; Mateos, P F; Mateos, PF; Mateos; Martínez-Molina, E; Martínez-Molina, E; Martínez-Molina; van Berkum , P; van Berkum , P; van Berkum 	Appl Environ Microbiol
11136777	Limited genetic diversity of Brucella spp.	Multilocus enzyme electrophoresis (MLEE) of 99 Brucella isolates, including the type strains from all recognized species, revealed a very limited genetic diversity and supports the proposal of a monospecific genus. In MLEE-derived dendrograms, Brucella abortus and a marine Brucella sp. grouped into a single electrophoretic type related to Brucella neotomae and Brucella ovis. Brucella suis and Brucella canis formed another cluster linked to Brucella melitensis and related to Rhizobium tropici. The Brucella strains tested that were representatives of the six electrophoretic types had the same rRNA gene restriction fragment length polymorphism patterns and identical ribotypes. All 99 isolates had similar chromosome profiles as revealed by the Eckhardt procedure.	2001 Jan	Gándara, B; Gándara, B; Gándara; Merino, A L; Merino, AL; Merino; Rogel, M A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	J Clin Microbiol
11139607	Conserved regulatory elements of the promoter sequence of the gene rpoH of enteric bacteria.	The rpoH regulatory region of different members of the enteric bacteria family was sequenced or downloaded from GenBank and compared. In addition, the transcriptional start sites of rpoH of Yersinia frederiksenii and Proteus mirabilis, two distant members of this family, were determined. Sequences similar to the sigma(70) promoters P1, P4 and P5, to the sigma(E) promoter P3 and to boxes DnaA1, DnaA2, cAMP receptor protein (CRP) boxes CRP1, CRP2 and box CytR present in Escherichia coli K12, were identified in sequences of closely related bacteria such as: E.coli, Shigella flexneri, Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium, Citrobacter freundii, Enterobacter cloacae and Klebsiella pneumoniae. In more distant bacteria, Y.frederiksenii and P.mirabilis, the rpoH regulatory region has a distal P1-like sigma(70) promoter and two proximal promoters: a heat-induced sigma(E)-like promoter and a sigma(70) promoter. Sequences similar to the regulatory boxes were not identified in these bacteria. This study suggests that the general pattern of transcription of the rpoH gene in enteric bacteria includes a distal sigma(70) promoter, >200 nt upstream of the initiation codon, and two proximal promoters: a heat-induced sigma(E)-like promoter and a sigma(70) promoter. A second proximal sigma(70) promoter under catabolite-regulation is probably present only in bacteria closely related to E.coli.	2001 Jan	Ramírez-Santos, J; Ramírez-Santos, J; Ramírez-Santos; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; García-Varela, M; García-Varela, M; García-Varela; Gómez-Eichelmann, M C; Gómez-Eichelmann, MC; Gómez-Eichelmann	Nucleic Acids Res
11211278	A revision of Rhizobium Frank 1889, with an emended description of the genus, and the inclusion of all species of Agrobacterium Conn 1942 and Allorhizobium undicola de Lajudie et al. 1998 as new combinations: Rhizobium radiobacter, R. rhizogenes, R. rubi, R. undicola and R. vitis.	Rhizobium, Agrobacterium and Allorhizobium are genera within the bacterial family Rhizobiaceae, together with Sinorhizobium. The species of Agrobacterium, Agrobacterium tumefaciens (syn. Agrobacterium radiobacter), Agrobacterium rhizogenes, Agrobacterium rubi and Agrobacterium vitis, together with Allorhizobium undicola, form a monophyletic group with all Rhizobium species, based on comparative 16S rDNA analyses. Agrobacterium is an artificial genus comprising plant-pathogenic species. The monophyletic nature of Agrobacterium, Allorhizobium and Rhizobium and their common phenotypic generic circumscription support their amalgamation into a single genus, Rhizobium. Agrobacterium tumefaciens was conserved as the type species of Agrobacterium, but the epithet radiobacter would take precedence as Rhizobium radiobacter in the revised genus. The proposed new combinations are Rhizobium radiobacter, Rhizobium rhizogenes, Rhizobium rubi, Rhizobium undicola and Rhizobium vitis.	2001 Jan	Young, J M; Young, JM; Young; Kuykendall, L D; Kuykendall, LD; Kuykendall; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Kerr, A; Kerr, A; Kerr; Sawada, H; Sawada, H; Sawada	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
11770429	Nonsymbiotic hemoglobins in rice are synthesized during germination and in differentiating cell types.	Nonsymbiotic hemoglobins (ns-Hbs) previously have been found in monocots and dicots; however, very little is known about the tissue and cell type localization as well as the physiological function(s) of these oxygen-binding proteins. We report the immunodetection and immunolocalization of ns-Hbs in rice (Oryza sativa L.) by Western blotting and in situ confocal laser scanning techniques. Ns-Hbs were detected in soluble extracts of different tissues from the developing rice seedling by immunoblotting. Levels of ns-Hbs increased in the germinating seed for the first six days following imbibition and remained relatively constant thereafter. In contrast, ns-Hb levels decreased during leaf maturation. Roots and mesocotyls contained detectable, but low levels of ns-Hbs. Split-seed experiments revealed that ns-Hbs are synthesized de novo during seed germination and are expressed in the absence of any signal originating from the embryo. Immunolocalization of ns-Hbs by confocal microscopy indicated the presence of ns-Hbs primarily in differentiated and differentiating cell types of the developing seedling, such as the aleurone, scutellum, root cap cells, sclerenchyma, and tracheary elements. To our knowledge, this is the first report of the specific cellular localization of these proteins during seedling development.	2001	Ross, E J; Ross, EJ; Ross; Shearman, L; Shearman, L; Shearman; Mathiesen, M; Mathiesen, M; Mathiesen; Zhou, Y J; Zhou, YJ; Zhou; Arredondo-Peter, R; Arredondo-Peter, R; Arredondo-Peter; Sarath, G; Sarath, G; Sarath; Klucas, R V; Klucas, RV; Klucas	Protoplasma
11125111	PromEC: An updated database of Escherichia coli mRNA promoters with experimentally identified transcriptional start sites.	PromEC is an updated compilation of Escherichia coli mRNA promoter sequences. It includes documentation on the location of experimentally identified mRNA transcriptional start sites on the E. coli chromosome, as well as the actual sequences in the promoter region. The database was updated as of July 2000 and includes 472 entries. PromEC is accessible at http://bioinfo.md.huji.ac. il/marg/promec	2001 Jan	Hershberg, R; Hershberg, R; Hershberg; Bejerano, G; Bejerano, G; Bejerano; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Margalit, H; Margalit, H; Margalit	Nucleic Acids Res
11125053	RegulonDB (version 3.2): transcriptional regulation and operon organization in Escherichia coli K-12.	RegulonDB is a database on mechanisms of transcription regulation and operon organization in Escherichia coli K-12. The current version has considerably increased numbers of regulatory elements such as promoters, binding sites and terminators. The complete repertoire of known and predicted DNA-binding transcriptional regulators can be considered to be included in this version. The database now distinguishes different allosteric conformations of regulatory proteins indicating the one active in binding and regulating the different promoters. A new set of operon predictions has been incorporated. The relational design has been modified accordingly. Furthermore, a major improvement is a graphic display enabling browsing of the database with a Java-based graphic user interface with three zoom-levels connected to properties of each chromosomal element. The purpose of these modifications is to make RegulonDB a useful tool and control set for transcriptome experiments. RegulonDB can be accessed on the web at the URL: http://www.cifn.unam.mx/Computational_Biology/++ +regulondb/	2001 Jan	Salgado, H; Salgado, H; Salgado; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Millán-Zárate, D; Millán-Zárate, D; Millán-Zárate; Díaz-Peredo, E; Díaz-Peredo, E; Díaz-Peredo; Sánchez-Solano, F; Sánchez-Solano, F; Sánchez-Solano; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda; Bonavides-Martínez, C; Bonavides-Martínez, C; Bonavides-Martínez; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
11106020	Differential regulation of fixN-reiterated genes in Rhizobium etli by a novel fixL-fixK cascade.	Among the complexities in the regulation of nitrogen fixation in the Rhizobiaceae are reiteration of regulatory components as well as variant roles for each component between species. For Rhizobium etli CFN42, we reported that the symbiotic plasmid (pCFN42d) contains a key regulatory gene (fixKd) and genes for a symbiotic cytochrome oxidase (fixNOQPd). Here we discuss the occurrence of reiteration of these genes (fixKf and fixNOQPf) and the finding of an unusual fixL homolog on a plasmid previously considered cryptic (pCFN42f). The structure of the deduced FixL polypeptide is suggestive of a fusion of the receiver and transmitter modules of a two-component regulatory system as described in R. leguminosarum bv. viciae VF39. Gene fusion analysis, coupled with mutation of each regulatory element, revealed that free-living expression of FixKf was dependent fully on FixL. In contrast, synthesis of FixKd was not detected under the conditions tested. The FixKf protein is needed for microaerobic expression of both fixN reiterations, whereas the FixKd protein appears to be dispensable. Interestingly, expression of the fixN reiterations exhibits a differential dependence for FixL, where transcription of fixNf was suppressed in the absence of FixL but expression of fixNd still showed significant levels. This suggests the existence of a FixL-independent mechanism for expression of the fixNd reiteration. Surprisingly, mutations in fixL, fixKd, or fixKf (either singly or in combination) did not alter symbiotic effectiveness. A mutation in fixNd (but not in fixNf) was, however, severely affected, indicating a differential role for these reiterations in nitrogen fixation.	2000 Dec	Girard, L; Girard, L; Girard; Brom, S; Brom, S; Brom; Dávalos, A; Dávalos, A; Dávalos; López, O; López, O; López; Soberón, M; Soberón, M; Soberón; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
11108022	Restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of 16S rDNA and low molecular weight RNA profiling of rhizobial isolates from shrubby legumes endemic to the Canary islands.	Thirty-six strains of slow-growing rhizobia isolated from nodules of four woody legumes endemic to the Canary islands were characterised by 16S rDNA PCR-RFLP analyses (ARDRA) and LMW RNA profiling, and compared with reference strains representing Bradyrhizobium japonicum, B. elkanii, B. liaoningense, and two unclassified Bradyrhizobium sp. (Lupinus) strains. Both techniques showed similar results, indicating the existence of three genotypes among the Canarian isolates. Analysis of the combined RFLP patterns obtained with four endonucleases, showed the existence of predominant genotype comprising 75% of the Canarian isolates (BTA-1 group) and the Bradyrhizobium sp. (Lupinus) strains. A second genotype was shared by nine Canarian isolates (BGA-1 group) and the B. japonicum and B. liaoningense reference strains. The BES-5 strain formed an independent group, as also did the B. elkanii reference strains. LMW RNA profile analysis consistently resolved the same three genotypes detected by 16S ARDRA among the Canarian isolates, and suggested that all these isolates are genotypically more related to B. japonicum than to B. elkanii or B. liaoningense. Cluster analysis of the combined 16S ARDRA and LMW RNA profiles resolved the BTA-1 group with the Bradyrhizobium sp. (Lupinus) strains, and the BES-5 isolate, as a well separated sub-branch of the B. japonicum cluster. Thus, the two types of analyses indicated that the isolates related to BTA-1 conform a group of bradyrhizobial strains that can be clearly distinguishable from representatives of the tree currently described Bradyrhizobium species. No correlation between genotypes, host legumes, and geographic location was found.	2000 Oct	Jarabo-Lorenzo, A; Jarabo-Lorenzo, A; Jarabo-Lorenzo; Velázquez, E; Velázquez, E; Velázquez; Pérez-Galdona, R; Pérez-Galdona, R; Pérez-Galdona; Vega-Hernández, M C; Vega-Hernández, MC; Vega-Hernández; Martínez-Molina, E; Martínez-Molina, E; Martínez-Molina; Mateos, P E; Mateos, PE; Mateos; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; León-Barrios, M; León-Barrios, M; León-Barrios	Syst Appl Microbiol
10986467	Crystal structure of a nonsymbiotic plant hemoglobin.	Nonsymbiotic hemoglobins (nsHbs) form a new class of plant proteins that is distinct genetically and structurally from leghemoglobins. They are found ubiquitously in plants and are expressed in low concentrations in a variety of tissues including roots and leaves. Their function involves a biochemical response to growth under limited O(2) conditions.	2000 Sep	Hargrove, M S; Hargrove, MS; Hargrove; Brucker, E A; Brucker, EA; Brucker; Stec, B; Stec, B; Stec; Sarath, G; Sarath, G; Sarath; Arredondo-Peter, R; Arredondo-Peter, R; Arredondo-Peter; Klucas, R V; Klucas, RV; Klucas; Olson, J S; Olson, JS; Olson; Phillips, G N; Phillips, GN; Phillips	Structure
10972799	Inactivation of the gene for phospholipid N-methyltransferase in Sinorhizobium meliloti: phosphatidylcholine is required for normal growth.	In phosphatidylcholine (PC)-containing prokaryotes, only the methylation pathway of PC biosynthesis was thought to occur. However, a second choline-dependent pathway for PC formation, the PC synthase (Pcs) pathway, exists in Sinorhizobium (Rhizobium) meliloti in which choline is condensed with CDP-diacylglyceride. Here, we characterize the methylation pathway of PC biosynthesis in S. meliloti. A mutant deficient in phospholipid N-methyltransferase (Pmt) was complemented with a S. meliloti gene bank and the complementing DNA was sequenced. A gene coding for a S-adenosylmethionine-dependent N-methyltransferase was identified as the sinorhizobial Pmt, which showed little similarity to the corresponding enzyme from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Upon expression of the sinorhizobial Pmt, besides phosphatidylcholine, the methylated intermediates of the methylation pathway, monomethylphosphatidylethanolamine and dimethylphosphatidylethanolamine, are also formed. When Pmt-deficient mutants of S. meliloti are grown on minimal medium, they cannot form PC, and they grow significantly more slowly than the wild type. Growth of the Pmt-deficient mutant in the presence of choline allows for PC formation via the Pcs pathway and restores wild-type-like growth. Double knock-out mutants, deficient in Pmt and in Pcs, are unable to form PC and show reduced growth even in the presence of choline. These results suggest that PC is required for normal growth of S. meliloti.	2000 Aug	de Rudder, K E; de Rudder, KE; de Rudder; López-Lara, I M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, O; Geiger, O; Geiger	Mol Microbiol
10922070	Prediction, identification, and artificial selection of DNA rearrangements in Rhizobium: toward a natural genomic design.	Based on the DNA sequence of the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium strain NGR234, we predicted potential rearrangements generated by homologous recombination. All predicted rearrangements were identified experimentally by using a PCR-based methodology. Thus, the predicted and the actual dynamic maps of the replicon coincide. By using an approach that does not involve the introduction of exogenous genetic elements, derivative populations that are pure for specific rearrangements were obtained. We propose that knowledge of the DNA sequence of a genome offers the possibility of designing pathways of sequential rearrangements leading to alternative genomic structures. An experimental strategy to isolate bacterial populations containing the desired structures is discussed.	2000 Aug	Flores, M; Flores, M; Flores; Mavingui, P; Mavingui, P; Mavingui; Perret, X; Perret, X; Perret; Broughton, W J; Broughton, WJ; Broughton; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Hernández, G; Hernández, G; Hernández; Dávila, G; Dávila, G; Dávila; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
10873525	In Rhizobium etli symbiotic plasmid transfer, nodulation competitivity and cellular growth require interaction among different replicons.	Bacteria belonging to the genus Rhizobium are able to develop two different lifestyles, in symbiotic association with plant roots or through saprophytic growth. The genome of Rhizobium strains is constituted by a chromosome and several large plasmids, one of them containing most of the genes involved in symbiosis (symbiotic plasmid or pSym). Our model strain Rhizobium etli CFN42 contains six plasmids. We have constructed multiple plasmid-cured derivatives of this strain and used them to analyze the contribution of these plasmids to free-living cellular viability, competitivity for nodulation, plasmid transfer, and utilization of diverse carbon sources. Our results show that the transfer of the pSym is strictly dependent on the presence of another plasmid; consequently under conditions where pSym transfer is required, nodulation relies on the presence of a plasmid devoid of nodulation genes. We also found a drastic decrease in competitivity for nodulation in multiple plasmid-cured derivatives when compared with single plasmid-cured strains. Cellular growth and viability were greatly diminished in some multiple plasmid-cured strains. The utilization of a number of carbon sources depends on the presence of specific plasmids. The results presented in this work indicate that functional interactions among sequences scattered in the different plasmids are required for successful completion of both lifestyles.	2000 Jul	Brom, S; Brom, S; Brom; García-de los Santos, A; García-de los Santos, A; García-de los Santos; Cervantes, L; Cervantes, L; Cervantes; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero	Plasmid
10878127	Role of GOGAT in carbon and nitrogen partitioning in Rhizobium etli.	The isolation and characterization of a Rhizobium etli glutamate auxotroph, TAD12, harbouring a single Tn5 insertion, is reported. This mutant produced no detectable glutamate synthase (GOGAT) activity. The cloning and physical characterization of a 7.2 kb fragment of R. etli DNA harbouring the structural genes gltB and gltD encoding the two GOGAT subunits GltB and GltD is also reported. In comparison with the wild-type strain (CFN42), the GOGAT mutant strain utilized less succinate and glutamate and grew less with this and other amino acids as nitrogen source. R. etli assimilates ammonium by the glutamine synthetase (GS)-GOGAT pathway and a GOGAT mutant prevents the cycling of glutamine by this pathway, something that impairs nitrogen and carbon metabolism and explains the decrease in the amino-nitrogen during exponential growth, with glutamate as nitrogen source. GOGAT activity also has a role in ammonium turnover and in the synthesis of amino acids and proteins, processes that are necessary to sustain cell viability in non-growing conditions. The assimilation of ammonium is important during symbiosis and glutamate constitutes 20-40% of the total amino-nitrogen. In symbiosis, the blockage of ammonium assimilation by a GOGAT mutation significantly decreases the amino-nitrogen pool of the bacteroids and may explain why more N(2) is fixed in ammonium, excreted to the plant cell, transported to the leaves and stored in the seeds.	2000 Jul	Castillo, Adriana; Castillo, A; Castillo; Taboada, Hermenegildo; Taboada, H; Taboada; Mendoza, Alberto; Mendoza, A; Mendoza; Valderrama, Brenda; Valderrama, B; Valderrama; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	Microbiology (Reading)
10977874	Sesbania herbacea-Rhizobium huautlense Nodulation in Flooded Soils and Comparative Characterization of S. herbacea-Nodulating Rhizobia in Different Environments.	The nodulation of S. herbacea was compared under flooded and non-flooded conditions in two different soils. One soil was from a flooded field in Sierra de Huautla, the native habitat of this legume, while the other soil was from a well-drained field in Cuernavaca, where rhizobia were found to nodulate the introduced S. herbacea plants. Nodulation of the plants was completely eliminated by flooding in the Cuernavaca soil, whereas nodules were obtained in the same soil under non-flooded conditions. In contrast, nodules were formed in Huautla soil under both flooded and non-flooded conditions. Most isolates, except isolate HS2, from Huautla soil and water were identified as R. huautlense by colony morphology, growth rate, PCR-RFLP of 16S rRNA genes, MLEE, cellular plasmid contents, and RFLP of nifH and nodDAB genes. Isolate HS2 was identified as Mesorhizobium sp. Isolates from Cuernavaca soil were different from R. huautlense in many aspects and were classified into five rDNA types within the genera Mesorhizobium, Rhizobium, and Sinorhizobium by PCR-RFLP of 16S rRNA genes. R. huautlense is a water Rhizobium species. Growth by denitrification under oxygen limitation or with ethanol was observed for R. huautlense bacteria but not for the isolates from Cuernavaca. In an interstrain nodulation competitive assay under both flooded and non-flooded conditions, R. huautlense strain S02 completely inhibited the nodulation of Mesorhizobium sp. Sn2, an isolate from Cuernavaca. From these results, we conclude that R. huautlense has the unique ability to nodulate S. herbacea not only in flooded soils, but in non-flooded soils as well. 	2000 Jul	Wang, E T; Wang, ET; Wang; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Microb Ecol
10985751	Structural levansucrase gene (lsdA) constitutes a functional locus conserved in the species Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus.	Levansucrase (EC 2.4.1.10) was identified as a constitutive exoenzyme in 14 Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus strains recovered from different host plants in diverse geographical regions. The enzyme, consisting of a single 60-kDa polypeptide, hydrolysed sucrose to synthesise oligofructans and levan. Sugar-cane-associated strains of the most abundant genotype (electrophoretic type 1) showed maximal values of levansucrase production. These values were three-fold higher than those of the isolates recovered from coffee plants. Restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis revealed a high degree of conservation of the levansucrase locus (IsdA) among the 14 strains under study, which represented 11 different G. diazotrophicus genotypes. Targeted disruption of the lsdA gene in four representative strains abolished their ability to grow on sucrose, indicating that the endophytic species G. diazotrophicus utilises plant sucrose via levansucrase.	2000 Jul-Aug	Hernández, L; Hernández, L; Hernández; Sotolongo, M; Sotolongo, M; Sotolongo; Rosabal, Y; Rosabal, Y; Rosabal; Menéndez, C; Menéndez, C; Menéndez; Ramírez, R; Ramírez, R; Ramírez; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Arrieta, J; Arrieta, J; Arrieta	Arch Microbiol
10858449	Cloning and characterization of the gene for phosphatidylcholine synthase.	Phosphatidylcholine (PC) is the major membrane-forming phospholipid in eukaryotes and can be synthesized by either of two pathways, the CDP-choline pathway or the methylation pathway. In prokaryotes only the methylation pathway was thought to occur. Recently, however, we could demonstrate (de Rudder, K. E. E., Sohlenkamp, C., and Geiger, O. (1999) J. Biol. Chem. 274, 20011-20016) that a second pathway for phosphatidylcholine biosynthesis exists in Sinorhizobium (Rhizobium) meliloti involving a novel enzymatic activity, phosphatidylcholine synthase, that condenses choline and CDP-diacylglyceride in one step to form PC and CMP. Using a colony autoradiography method we have isolated mutants of S. meliloti deficient in phosphatidylcholine synthase and which are no longer able to incorporate radiolabeled choline into PC. Complementation of such mutants with a sinorhizobial cosmid gene bank, subcloning of the complementing fragment, and sequencing of the subclone led to the identification of a gene coding for a presumptive CDP-alcohol phosphatidyltransferase. Amplification of this gene and its expression in Escherichia coli demonstrates that it codes for phosphatidylcholine synthase. Genomes of some pathogens (Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Borrelia burgdorferi) contain genes similar to the sinorhizobial gene (pcs) for phosphatidylcholine synthase. Although pcs-deficient S. meliloti knock-out mutants show wild type-like growth and lipid composition, they are unable to perform rapid PC biosynthesis that normally is achieved via the phosphatidylcholine synthase pathway in S. meliloti wild type.	2000 Jun	Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; de Rudder, K E; de Rudder, KE; de Rudder; Rohrs, V; Rohrs, V; Rohrs; Lopez-Lara, I M; Lopez-Lara, IM; Lopez-Lara; Geiger, O; Geiger, O; Geiger	J Biol Chem
10823905	Operons in Escherichia coli: genomic analyses and predictions.	The rich knowledge of operon organization in Escherichia coli, together with the completed chromosomal sequence of this bacterium, enabled us to perform an analysis of distances between genes and of functional relationships of adjacent genes in the same operon, as opposed to adjacent genes in different transcription units. We measured and demonstrated the expected tendencies of genes within operons to have much shorter intergenic distances than genes at the borders of transcription units. A clear peak at short distances between genes in the same operon contrasts with a flat frequency distribution of genes at the borders of transcription units. Also, genes in the same operon tend to have the same physiological functional class. The results of these analyses were used to implement a method to predict the genomic organization of genes into transcription units. The method has a maximum accuracy of 88% correct identification of pairs of adjacent genes to be in an operon, or at the borders of transcription units, and correctly identifies around 75% of the known transcription units when used to predict the transcription unit organization of the E. coli genome. Based on the frequency distance distributions, we estimated a total of 630 to 700 operons in E. coli. This step opens the possibility of predicting operon organization in other bacteria whose genome sequences have been finished.	2000 Jun	Salgado, H; Salgado, H; Salgado; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb; Smith, T F; Smith, TF; Smith; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
10830266	Disruption of a gene essential for sulfoquinovosyldiacylglycerol biosynthesis in Sinorhizobium meliloti has no detectable effect on root nodule symbiosis.	The sulfolipid sulfoquinovosyldiacylglycerol is commonly found in the thylakoid membranes of photosynthetic bacteria and plants. While there is a good correlation between the occurrence of sulfolipid and photosynthesis, a number of exceptions are known. Most recently, sulfoquinovosyldiacylglycerol was discovered in the non-photosynthetic, root nodule-forming bacterium Sinorhizobium meliloti. This discovery raised the questions of the phylogenetic origin of genes essential for the biosynthesis of this lipid in S. meliloti and of a function of sulfolipid in root nodule symbiosis. To begin to answer these questions, we isolated and inactivated the sqdB gene of S. meliloti. This gene and two other genes located directly 3' of sqdB are highly similar to the sqdB, sqdC, and sqdD genes known to be essential for sulfolipid biosynthesis in the photosynthetic, purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. This observation confirms the close phylogenetic kinship between these two species. Furthermore, the reduced similarity of sqdB to the plant ortholog SQD1 of Arabidopsis thaliana does not support a previous sqd gene transfer from the plant as a consequence of close symbiosis. A sulfolipid-deficient mutant of S. meliloti disrupted in sqdB is capable of inducing functional nodules and does not show an obvious disadvantage under different laboratory culture conditions. Thus far, no specific function can be assigned to bacterial sulfolipid, in either nodule-associated or free-living cells. S. meliloti contains a rich set of polar membrane lipids some of which, including sulfolipid, may become critical only under growth conditions that still need to be discovered.	2000 Jun	Weissenmayer, B; Weissenmayer, B; Weissenmayer; Geiger, O; Geiger, O; Geiger; Benning, C; Benning, C; Benning	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
10809690	Structural elements required for replication and incompatibility of the Rhizobium etli symbiotic plasmid.	The symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium etli CE3 belongs to the RepABC family of plasmid replicons. This family is characterized by the presence of three conserved genes, repA, repB, and repC, encoded by the same DNA strand. A long intergenic sequence (igs) between repB and repC is also conserved in all members of the plasmid family. In this paper we demonstrate that (i) the repABC genes are organized in an operon; (ii) the RepC product is essential for replication; (iii) RepA and RepB products participate in plasmid segregation and in the regulation of plasmid copy number; (iv) there are two cis-acting incompatibility regions, one located in the igs (incalpha) and the other downstream of repC (incbeta) (the former is essential for replication); and (v) RepA is a trans-acting incompatibility factor. We suggest that incalpha is a cis-acting site required for plasmid partitioning and that the origin of replication lies within incbeta.	2000 Jun	Ramírez-Romero, M A; Ramírez-Romero, MA; Ramírez-Romero; Soberón, N; Soberón, N; Soberón; Pérez-Oseguera, A; Pérez-Oseguera, A; Pérez-Oseguera; Téllez-Sosa, J; Téllez-Sosa, J; Téllez-Sosa; Cevallos, M A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	J Bacteriol
10854788	Expression pattern of Rhizobium etli ccmIEFH genes involved in c-type cytochrome maturation.	In different bacterial species, ccmIEFH genes have been suggested to code for subunits of a bacterial haem-lyase catalyzing the covalent attachment of haem to c-type apoproteins. In Rhizobium etli CE3 there are two copies of ccmIEFH: one in the chromosome and the other located in plasmid pf. However, the null phenotype of chromosomal ccmF mutant indicates that the gene locus of plasmid pf is not functional. Two ccmI chromosomal mutants, previously isolated, produced detectable levels of c-type cytochromes under certain culture conditions in contrast with the ccmF mutant, suggesting that ccmF could be transcribed independently. The transcriptional organization of ccmIEFH operon was established. Two promoters from the chromosomal locus were mapped by primer extension, one located upstream of ccmI and the second located upstream of ccmF. The regulation of the expression of both promoters was studied using appropriate lacZ gene fusions (ccmI-lacZ and ccmEF-lacZ). The ccmI-lacZ gene fusion was expressed in complex medium, during exponential growth, under microaerobic conditions and in a R. etli mutant that accumulates reducing power, conditions where a higher respiration rate could be limited by c-type cytochrome content. The ccmEF-lacZ fusion was also primarily expressed in complex medium and under microaerophilic conditions. The finding of two independent promoters in this gene locus could suggest that the step catalyzed by CcmFH could be a rate-limiting step for c-type cytochrome assembly under certain culture conditions.	2000 May	Reyes1, J D; Reyes1, JD; Reyes1; Tabche1, M; Tabche1, M; Tabche1; Morera, C; Morera, C; Morera; Girard, M L; Girard, ML; Girard; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Krol, E; Krol, E; Krol; Miranda, J; Miranda, J; Miranda; Soberón, M; Soberón, M; Soberón	Gene
10729615	Analysis of a ferric leghemoglobin reductase from cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) root nodules.	Ferric leghemoglobin reductase (FLbR), an enzyme reducing ferric leghemoglobin (Lb) to ferrous Lb, was purified from cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) root nodules by sequential chromatography on hydroxylapatite followed by Mono-Q HR5/5 FPLC and Sephacryl S-200 gel filtration. The purified cowpea FLbR had a specific activity of 216 nmol Lb(2+)O(2) formed min(-1) mg(-1) of enzyme for cowpea Lb(3+) and a specific activity of 184 nmol Lb(2+)O(2) formed min(-1) mg(-1) of enzyme for soybean Lb(3+). A cDNA clone of cowpea FLbR was obtained by screening a cowpea root nodule cDNA library. The nucleotide sequence of cowpea FLbR cDNA exhibited about 88% similarity with soybean (Glycine max) FLbR and 85% with pea (Pisum sativum) dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase (DLDH, EC 1.8.1.4) cDNAs. Conserved regions for the FAD-binding site, NAD(P)H-binding site, and disulfide active site were identified among the deduced amino acid sequences of cowpea FLbR, soybean FLbR, pea DLDH and other enzymes in the family of the pyridine nucleotide-disulfide oxido-reductases.	2000 May	Luan, P; Luan; Aréchaga-Ocampo, E; Aréchaga-Ocampo; Sarath, G; Sarath; Arredondo-Peter, R; Arredondo-Peter; Klucas, RV; Klucas	Plant Sci
10796024	Multiresistance genes of Rhizobium etli CFN42.	Multidrug efflux pumps of bacteria are involved in the resistance to various antibiotics and toxic compounds. In Rhizobium etli, a mutualistic symbiont of Phaseolus vulgaris (bean), genes resembling multidrug efflux pump genes were identified and designated rmrA and rmrB. rmrA was obtained after the screening of transposon-generated fusions that are inducible by bean-root released flavonoids. The predicted gene products of rmrAB shared significant homology to membrane fusion and major facilitator proteins, respectively. Mutants of rmrA formed on average 40% less nodules in bean, while mutants of rmrA and rmrB had enhanced sensitivity to phytoalexins, flavonoids, and salicylic acid, compared with the wild-type strain. Multidrug resistance genes emrAB from Escherichia coli complemented an rmrA mutant from R. etli for resistance to high concentrations of naringenin.	2000 May	González-Pasayo, R; González-Pasayo, R; González-Pasayo; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
10734201	Discovering regulatory elements in non-coding sequences by analysis of spaced dyads.	The application of microarray and related technologies is currently generating a systematic catalog of the transcriptional response of any single gene to a multiplicity of experimental conditions. Clustering genes according to the similarity of their transcriptional response provides a direct hint to the regulons of the different transcription factors, many of which have still not been characterized. We have developed a new method for deciphering the mechanism underlying the common transcriptional response of a set of genes, i.e. discovering cis -acting regulatory elements from a set of unaligned upstream sequences. This method, called dyad analysis, is based on the observation that many regulatory sites consist of a pair of highly conserved trinucleotides, spaced by a non-conserved region of fixed width. The approach is to count the number of occurrences of each possible spaced pair of trinucleotides, and to assess its statistical significance. The method is highly efficient in the detection of sites bound by C(6)Zn(2)binuclear cluster proteins, as well as other transcription factors. In addition, we show that the dyad and single-word analyses are efficient for the detection of regulatory patterns in gene clusters from DNA chip experiments. In combination, these programs should provide a fast and efficient way to discover new regulatory sites for as yet unknown transcription factors.	2000 Apr	van Helden, J; van Helden, J; van Helden; Rios, A F; Rios, AF; Rios; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
10734204	The repertoire of DNA-binding transcriptional regulators in Escherichia coli K-12.	Using a combination of several approaches we estimated and characterized a total of 314 regulatory DNA-binding proteins in Escherichia coli, which might represent its minimal set of transcription factors. The collection is comprised of 35% activators, 43% repressors and 22% dual regulators. Within many regulatory protein families, the members are homogeneous in their regulatory roles, physiology of regulated genes, regulatory function, length and genome position, showing that these families have evolved homogeneously in prokaryotes, particularly in E.coli. This work describes a full characterization of the repertoire of regulatory interactions in a whole living cell. This repertoire should contribute to the interpretation of global gene expression profiles in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes.	2000 Apr	Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
10692356	Molecular basis for the temperature sensitivity of Escherichia coli pth(Ts).	The gene pth, encoding peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase (Pth), is essential for protein synthesis and viability of Escherichia coli. Two pth mutants have been studied in depth: a pth(Ts) mutant isolated as temperature sensitive and a pth(rap) mutant selected as nonpermissive for bacteriophage lambda vegetative growth. Here we show that each mutant protein is defective in a different way. The Pth(Ts) protein was very unstable in vivo, both at 43 degrees C and at permissive temperatures, but its specific activity was comparable to that of the wild-type enzyme, Pth(wt). Conversely, the mutant Pth(rap) protein had the same stability as Pth(wt), but its specific activity was low. The thermosensitivity of the pth(Ts) mutant, presumably, ensues after Pth(Ts) protein levels are reduced at 43 degrees C. Conditions that increased the cellular Pth(Ts) concentration, a rise in gene copy number or diminished protein degradation, allowed cell growth at a nonpermissive temperature. Antibiotic-mediated inhibition of mRNA and protein synthesis, but not of peptidyl-tRNA drop-off, reduced pth(Ts) cell viability even at a permissive temperature. Based on these results, we suggest that Pth(Ts) protein, being unstable in vivo, supports cell viability only if its concentration is maintained above a threshold that allows general protein synthesis.	2000 Mar	Cruz-Vera, L R; Cruz-Vera, LR; Cruz-Vera; Toledo, I; Toledo, I; Toledo; Hernández-Sánchez, J; Hernández-Sánchez, J; Hernández-Sánchez; Guarneros, G; Guarneros, G; Guarneros	J Bacteriol
10757747	Recombination enhancement by replication (RER) in Rhizobium etli.	Studies in several organisms show that recombination and replication interact closely. Recombinational repair usually requires associated replication at some stage; moreover, additional replication can induce recombination through either homologous or illegitimate events. In prokaryotes, stimulation of recombination by replication is more dramatic when rolling circle replication is employed. In contrast, theta-type replication induces only a modest increase in recombination frequency. In this article, we show that induction of theta-type replication from a supernumerary origin in the symbiotic plasmid (pSym) of Rhizobium etli leads to a 1000-fold increase in deletion formation on this plasmid. These deletions span 120 kb (the symbiotic region) and have as endpoints the reiterated nitrogenase operons. We have named this phenomenon RER, for recombination enhancement by replication. RER is not affected by the position of the replication origin in the pSym, the direction of advance of the replication fork, or the distance from the origin to the recombining repeats. On the other hand, RER is dependent on an active recA allele, indicating that it is due to homologous recombination. RER displays a strong regionality restricted to the symbiotic region. The similarities and differences of RER with the recombination process observed at the terminus of replication of the Escherichia coli chromosome are discussed.	2000 Mar	Valencia-Morales, E; Valencia-Morales, E; Valencia-Morales; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero	Genetics
10808067	Plant regeneration from callus and suspension cultures of Valeriana edulis ssp. procera via simultaneous organogenesis and somatic embryogenesis.	Plants of the genus Valeriana produce irioid esters of biotechnological interest, known as valepotriates. The regeneration of Valeriana edulis ssp. procera via indirect organogenesis and somatic embryogenesis from leaf-derived callus and suspension cultures, is presented. For induction of callus, leaves were cultured on semisolid MS medium supplemented with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and kinetin. Embryogenic and organogenic callus development was observed after 16 weeks. Calli were transferred to semisolid and liquid Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with kinetin and 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). Appearance of shoot and somatic embryo occurred 4 weeks later. Shoots were rooted and somatic embryos were germinated and were transferred to the greenhouse. A better organogenic and embryogenic response was observed from suspension cultures. Histological observations of morphogenic callus revealed that both somatic embryos and shoots arose from the same type of callus.	2000 Feb	Castillo, P; Castillo; Márquez, J; Márquez; Rubluo, A; Rubluo; Hernández, G; Hernández; Lara, M; Lara	Plant Sci
10675553	Characterization of Arabidopsis AtAMT2, a novel ammonium transporter in plants.	We have cloned and characterized the first member of a novel family of ammonium transporters in plants: AtAMT2 from Arabidopsis thaliana. AtAMT2 is more closely related to bacterial ammonium transporters than to plant transporters of the AMT1 family. The protein was expressed and functionally characterized in yeast. AtAMT2 transported ammonium in an energy-dependent manner. In contrast to transporters of the AMT1 family, however, AtAMT2 did not transport the ammonium analogue, methylammonium. AtAMT2 was expressed more highly in shoots than roots and was subject to nitrogen regulation.	2000 Feb	Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Shelden, M; Shelden, M; Shelden; Howitt, S; Howitt, S; Howitt; Udvardi, M; Udvardi, M; Udvardi	FEBS Lett
10675620	Role of the ruvB gene in homologous and homeologous recombination in Rhizobium etli.	The Rhizobium etli ruvA and ruvB genes were cloned through a PCR-based approach, using degenerate primers matching conserved sectors in the amino acid sequences of RuvB from eight bacterial species. Comparative analysis of the predicted polypeptides for RuvA and RuvB of R. etli showed highly conserved blocks with the corresponding homologs in other bacteria; RuvB depicts characteristic motifs for DNA helicases (ATP-binding and DEXH-box motifs). An R. etli ruvB::loxP Sp mutant was constructed by interposon mutagenesis. This mutant was highly sensitive to DNA-damaging agents, such as methyl methanesulfonate and nitrofurantoin, implying a deficiency in DNA repair. Homologous and homeologous conjugational recombination was reduced almost tenfold in the ruvB::loxP Sp mutant; a recombination defect was also observed in assays employing recombination between small plasmids, albeit at a smaller magnitude. Although the ruvA and ruvB genes are contiguous in R. etli, complementation studies suggest that they are expressed independently.	2000 Feb	Martinez-Salazar, J M; Martinez-Salazar, JM; Martinez-Salazar; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero	Gene
10641039	A web site for the computational analysis of yeast regulatory sequences.	A series of computer programs were developed for the analysis of regulatory sequences, with a special focus on yeast. These tools are publicly available on the web (http://copan.cifn.unam. mx/Computational_Biology/yeast-tools or http://www.ucmb.ulb.ac. be/bioinformatics/rsa-tools/). Basically, three classical problems can be addressed: (a) search for known regulatory patterns in the upstream regions of known genes; (b) discovery of unknown regulatory patterns within a set of upstream regions known to be co-regulated; (c) search for unknown genes potentially regulated by a known transcription factor. Each of these tasks can be performed on basis of a simple (string) or more refined (matrix) description of the regulatory patterns. A feature-map program automatically generates visual representations of the positions at which patterns were found. The site also provides a series of general utilities, such as generation of random sequence, automatic drawing of XY graphs, interconversions between sequence formats, etc. Several tools are linked together to allow their sequential utilization (piping), but each one can also be used independently by filling the web form with external data. This widens the scope of the site to the analysis of non-regulatory and/or non-yeast sequences.	2000 Jan	van Helden, J; van Helden, J; van Helden; André, B; André, B; André; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Yeast
10938793	Decreased NADH glutamate synthase activity in nodules and flowers of alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) transformed with an antisense glutamate synthase transgene.	Legumes obtain a substantial portion of their nitrogen (N) from symbiotic N2 fixation in root nodules. The glutamine synthetase (GS, EC 6.3.1.2)/glutamate synthase (GOGAT) cycle is responsible for the initial N assimilation. This report describes the analysis of a transgenic alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) line containing an antisense NADH-GOGAT (EC 1.4.1.14) under the control of the nodule-enhanced aspartate amino-transferase (AAT-2) promoter. In one transgenic line, NADH-GOGAT enzyme activity was reduced to approximately 50%, with a corresponding reduction in protein and mRNA. The transcript abundance for cytosolic GS, ferredoxin-dependent GOGAT (EC 1.4.7.1), AAT-2 (EC 2.6.1.1), asparagine synthase (EC 6.3.5.4), and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPC, EC 4.1.1.31) were unaffected, as were enzyme activities for AAT, PEPC and GS. Antisense NADH-GOGAT plants grown under symbiotic conditions were moderately chlorotic and reduced in growth and N content, even though symbiotic N2 fixation was not significantly reduced. The addition of nitrate relieved the chlorosis and restored growth and N content. Surprisingly, the antisense NADH-GOGAT plants were male sterile resulting from inviable pollen. A reduction in NADH-GOGAT enzyme activity and transcript abundance in the antisense plants was measured during the early stages of flower development. Inheritance of the transgene was stable and resulted in progeny with a range of NADH-GOGAT activity. These data indicate that NADH-GOGAT plays a critical role in the assimilation of symbiotically fixed N and during pollen development.	2000 Jan	Schoenbeck, M A; Schoenbeck, MA; Schoenbeck; Temple, S J; Temple, SJ; Temple; Trepp, G B; Trepp, GB; Trepp; Blumenthal, J M; Blumenthal, JM; Blumenthal; Samac, D A; Samac, DA; Samac; Gantt, J S; Gantt, JS; Gantt; Hernandez, G; Hernandez, G; Hernandez; Vance, C P; Vance, CP; Vance	J Exp Bot
10784042	Expression and purification of four different rhizobial acyl carrier proteins.	In rhizobia, besides the constitutive acyl carrier protein (AcpP) involved in the biosynthesis and transfer of common fatty acids, there are at least three specialized acyl carrier proteins (ACPs): (1) the flavonoid-inducible nodulation protein NodF; (2) the RkpF protein, which is required for the biosynthesis of rhizobial capsular polysaccharides; and (3) AcpXL, which transfers 27-hydroxyoctacosanoic acid to a sugar backbone during lipid A biosynthesis. Whereas the nucleotide sequences encoding the three specialized ACPs are known, only the amino acid sequence of the AcpP of Sinorhizobium meliloti was available. In this study, using reverse genetics, the genes for the constitutive AcpPs of S. meliloti and of Rhizobium leguminosarum were cloned and sequenced. Previously, it had been shown that NodF and RkpF can be overproduced in Escherichia coli using the T7 polymerase expression system. Using the same system, the constitutive AcpPs of S. meliloti and of R. leguminosarum, together with the specialized ACP AcpXL, were overproduced and purified. All the known ACPs of rhizobia can be labelled in vivo during expression in E. coli with radioactive beta-alanine added to the growth medium due to their modification with a 4'-phosphopantetheine prosthetic group. The availability of all functionally different ACPs should help to unravel how different fatty acids are targeted towards different biosynthetic pathways in one organism.	2000 Apr	López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	Microbiology (Reading)
10790517	Natural Endophytic Occurrence of Acetobacter diazotrophicus in Pineapple Plants.	The presence of endophytic Acetobacter diazotrophicus was tested for pineapple plants (Ananas comosus [L.] Merr.) grown in the field. Diazotrophic bacteria were isolated from the inner tissues of surface sterilized roots, stems, and leaves of pineapple plants. Phenotypic tests permitted the selection of presumptive nitrogen-fixing A. diazotrophicus isolates. Restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs) of small subunit (SSU) rDNA using total DNA digested with endonuclease SphI and with endonuclease NcoI, hybridizations of RNA with an A. diazotrophicus large subunit (LSU) rRNA specific probe, as well as patterns in denaturing protein electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and multilocus enzyme tests allowed the identification of A. diazotrophicus isolates. High frequencies of isolation were obtained from propagative buds that had not been nitrogen-fertilized, and lower frequencies from 3-month-old plants that had been nitrogen-fertilized. No isolates were recovered from 5- to 7-month-old nitrogen-fertilized plants. All the A. diazotrophicus isolates recovered from pineapple plants belonged to the multilocus genotype which shows the most extensive distribution among all host species previously analyzed. </hea	2000 Jan	Tapia-Hernández, A; Tapia-Hernández; Bustillos-Cristales, MR; Bustillos-Cristales; Jiménez-Salgado, T; Jiménez-Salgado; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Fuentes-Ramírez, LE; Fuentes-Ramírez	Microb Ecol
10826800	Polyphasic characterization of rhizobia that nodulate Phaseolus vulgaris in West Africa (Senegal and Gambia).	Fifty-eight new isolates were obtained from root nodules of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) cultivated in soils originating from different agroecological areas in Senegal and Gambia (West Africa). A polyphasic approach including both phenotypic and genotypic techniques was used to study the diversity of the 58 Rhizobium isolates and to determine their taxonomic relationships with reference strains. All the techniques performed, analysis of multilocus enzyme electrophoretic patterns, SDS-PAGE profiles of total cell proteins, PCR-RFLP analysis of the genes encoding 16S rRNA and of the 16S-23S RNA intergenic spacer region (ITS-PCR-RFLP), auxanographic tests using API galleries and nodulation tests lead to the consensus conclusion that the new rhizobial isolates formed two main distinct groups, I and II, belonging to Rhizobium tropici type B and Rhizobium etli, respectively. By MLEE R. etli and group II strains showed several related electrophoretic types, evidencing some extent of internal heterogeneity among them. This heterogeneity was confirmed by other techniques (ITS-PCR-RFLP, SDS-PAGE and host-plant-specificity) with the same nine distinct strains of group II showing some differences from the core of group II (54 strains).	2000 Jan	Diouf, A; Diouf, A; Diouf; de Lajudie, P; de Lajudie, P; de Lajudie; Neyra, M; Neyra, M; Neyra; Kersters, K; Kersters, K; Kersters; Gillis, M; Gillis, M; Gillis; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Gueye, M; Gueye, M; Gueye	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
10613884	Promoter interference in a bacteriophage lambda control region: effects of a range of interpromoter distances.	The p(R) and p(RM) promoters of bacteriophage lambda direct transcription in divergent directions from start sites separated by 83 phosphodiester bonds. We had previously shown that the presence of an RNA polymerase at p(R) interfered with open complex formation at p(RM) and that this effect was alleviated by the deletion of 10 bp between the two promoters. Here we present a detailed characterization of the dependence of the interference on the interpromoter distance. It was found that the reduced interference between the two promoters is unique to the 10-bp deletion. The relief of interference was demonstrated to be due to the facilitation of a step subsequent to RNA polymerase binding to the p(RM) promoter. A model to explain these observations is proposed. A search of known Escherichia coli promoters identified three pairs of divergent promoters with similar separations to those investigated here.	2000 Jan	Strainic, M G; Strainic, MG; Strainic; Sullivan, J J; Sullivan, JJ; Sullivan; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; deHaseth, P L; deHaseth, PL; deHaseth	J Bacteriol
10592182	RegulonDB (version 3.0): transcriptional regulation and operon organization in Escherichia coli K-12.	RegulonDB is a database on transcription regulation and operon organization in Escherichia coli. The current version describes regulatory signals of transcription initiation, promoters, regulatory binding sites of specific regulators, ribosome binding sites and terminators, as well as information on genes clustered in operons. These specific annotations have been gathered from a constant search in the literature, as well as based on computational sequence predictions. The genomic coordinates of all these objects in the E.coli K-12 chromosome are clearly indicated. Every known object has a link to at least one MEDLINE reference. We have also added direct links to recent expression data of E.coli K-12. The version presented here has important modifications both in the structure of the database, as well as in the amount and type of information encoded in the database. RegulonDB can be accessed on the web at URL: http://www.cifn.unam. mx/Computational_Biology/regulondb/	2000 Jan	Salgado, H; Salgado, H; Salgado; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Millán-Zárate, D; Millán-Zárate, D; Millán-Zárate; Blattner, F R; Blattner, FR; Blattner; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
10673011	Repeated sequences in bacterial chromosomes and plasmids: a glimpse from sequenced genomes.	To gain insight into the extent of exact DNA repeats in sequenced bacterial genomes and their plasmids, we analyzed the collection of completely sequenced bacterial genomes available at GenBank using the program Miropeats. This program draws graphical representations of exact DNA repeats in whole genomes. In this work, we present maps showing the extent and type (inverted or direct) of exact DNA repeats longer than 300 bp for the whole collection. These repeats may participate in a variety of events relevant for bacterial genome plasticity, such as amplifications, deletions, inversions, and translocations (via homologous recombination), as well as transposition. Additionally, we review recent data showing that high-frequency architectural variations in genomic structure occur at both the interspecies and interstrain levels.	1999 Nov-Dec	Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Martínez-Salazar, J; Martínez-Salazar, J; Martínez-Salazar; Ortiz, E; Ortiz, E; Ortiz; Rodríguez, C; Rodríguez, C; Rodríguez; Valencia-Morales, E; Valencia-Morales, E; Valencia-Morales	Res Microbiol
10535912	Identification of lumichrome as a sinorhizobium enhancer of alfalfa root respiration and shoot growth.	Sinorhizobium meliloti bacteria produce a signal molecule that enhances root respiration in alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) and also triggers a compensatory increase in whole-plant net carbon assimilation. Nuclear magnetic resonance, mass spectrometry, and ultraviolet-visible absorption identify the enhancer as lumichrome, a common breakdown product of riboflavin. Treating alfalfa roots with 3 nM lumichrome increased root respiration 21% (P < 0.05) within 48 h. A closely linked increase in net carbon assimilation by the shoot compensated for the enhanced root respiration. For example, applying 5 nM lumichrome to young alfalfa roots increased plant growth by 8% (P < 0.05) after 12 days. Soaking alfalfa seeds in 5 nM lumichrome before germination increased growth by 18% (P < 0.01) over the same period. In both cases, significant growth enhancement (P < 0.05) was evident only in the shoot. S. meliloti requires exogenous CO2 for growth and may benefit directly from the enhanced root respiration that is triggered by lumichrome. Thus Sinorhizobium-alfalfa associations, which ultimately form symbiotic N2-reducing root nodules, may be favored at an early developmental stage by lumichrome, a previously unrecognized mutualistic signal. The rapid degradation of riboflavin to lumichrome under many physiological conditions and the prevalence of riboflavin release by rhizosphere bacteria suggest that events demonstrated here in the S. meliloti-alfalfa association may be widely important across many plant-microbe interactions.	1999 Oct	Phillips, D A; Phillips, DA; Phillips; Joseph, C M; Joseph, CM; Joseph; Yang, G P; Yang, GP; Yang; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Sanborn, J R; Sanborn, JR; Sanborn; Volpin, H; Volpin, H; Volpin	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
10555327	Characterization of bacteria isolated from wild legumes in the north-western regions of China.	Nodule isolates from 11 species of wild legumes in north-western China were characterized by numerical taxonomy, PCR-based 16S rRNA gene RFLP and sequence analyses, DNA-DNA hybridization, restriction patterns of nodDAB and nifH genes, and symbiotic properties. Based on the results of numerical taxonomy, most of the 35 new isolates were grouped into five clusters (clusters 7, 9, 12, 14 and 15). Clusters 7 and 12 were identified as Mesorhizobium amorphae and Agrobacterium tumefaciens, respectively, based on their high DNA homologies with the reference strains for these species, their 16S rRNA gene analysis and their phenotypic features. Results of 16S rDNA PCR-RFLP analysis showed that cluster 9 belonged to Rhizobium. Clusters 14 and 15 were identified as Mesorhizobium based on their moderately slow-growing, acid-producing characters and the high similarity of their 16S rDNA PCR-RFLP patterns to those of Mesorhizobium species. These two clusters were genomic species distinct from all described species based on analysis of DNA relatedness within this genus. The isolates in cluster 12 (Agrobacterium tumefaciens) failed to nodulate their original host and other selected hosts and they did not hybridize to nif or nod gene probes. The possibility of opportunistic nodulation of these isolates is discussed. Identical restriction patterns were obtained in the nif or nod gene hybridization studies from the three isolates within cluster 15, which were isolated from the same host species. The isolates from different host plants in each of clusters 9 and 14 produced different nodDAB RFLP patterns, but similar nifH RFLP patterns appeared (one band for each isolate). Different patterns were observed among different clusters from both the nod and nif gene hybridization studies. Crossnodulation was recorded among the isolates and the host plants in the same cluster and promiscuous properties were found among some of the hosts tested.	1999 Oct	Tan, Z Y; Tan, ZY; Tan; Wang, E T; Wang, ET; Wang; Peng, G X; Peng, GX; Peng; Zhu, M E; Zhu, ME; Zhu; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Chen, W X; Chen, WX; Chen	Int J Syst Bacteriol
10508927	Escherichia coli TEM1 beta-lactamase in CTAB reverse micelles: exchange/diffusion-limited catalysis.	We report kinetic data of penicillin hydrolysis catalyzed by beta-lactamase entrapped in reverse micelles formed with cetyl trimethylammonium bromide (CTAB), n-octane, hexanol and aqueous buffer. The K(cat) of this diffusion-limited reaction can be improved in aqueous buffer by a factor of 1.1-1.2 just by increasing the phosphate buffer concentration from 50 to 100 mM. In reverse micelles, increasing the buffer concentration has little effect on K(cat) when the size of the empty micelle is below the size of the protein. However, in larger micelles, the effect is enhanced and the K(cat) improves several fold, changing the form of the curve of K(cat) versus Wo from bell-shaped to almost hyperbolic. The results indicate that micellar exchange and internal diffusion may limit the reaction in reverse micelles and provide further evidence that the form of the curve depends on other factors besides the relationship between the size of the enzyme and that of the empty reverse micelle.	1999 Oct	Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb; Gómez-Puyou, A; Gómez-Puyou, A; Gómez-Puyou; Soberon, X; Soberon, X; Soberon	FEBS Lett
10555329	Rhizobium etli bv. mimosae, a novel biovar isolated from Mimosa affinis.	Fifty rhizobial isolates from root nodules of Mimosa affinis, a small leguminous plant native to Mexico, were identified as Rhizobium etli on the basis of the results of PCR-RFLP and RFLP analyses of small-subunit rRNA genes, multilocus enzyme electrophoresis and DNA-DNA homology. They are, however, a restricted group of lineages with low genetic diversity within the species. The isolates from M. affinis differed-from the R. etli strains that orginated from bean plants (Phaseolus vulgaris) in the size and replicator region of the symbiotic plasmid and in symbiotic-plasmid-borne traits such as nifH gene sequence and organization, melanin production and host specificity. A new biovar, bv. mimosae, is proposed within R. etli to encompass Rhizobium isolates obtained from M. affinis. The strains from common bean plants have been designated previously as R. etli bv. phaseoli. Strains of both R. etli biovars could nodulate P. vulgaris, but only those of bv. mimosae could form nitrogen-fixing nodules on Leucaena leucocephala.	1999 Oct	Wang, E T; Wang, ET; Wang; Rogel, M A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; García-de los Santos, A; García-de los Santos, A; García-de los Santos; Martínez-Romero, J; Martínez-Romero, J; Martínez-Romero; Cevallos, M A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Int J Syst Bacteriol
10494633	Phaseolus vulgaris recognizes Azorhizobium caulinodans Nod factors with a variety of chemical substituents.	Phaseolus vulgaris is a promiscuous host plant that can be nodulated by many different rhizobia representing a wide spectrum of Nod factors. In this study, we introduced the Rhizobium tropici CFN299 Nod factor sulfation genes nodHPQ into Azorhizobium caulinodans. The A. caulinodans transconjugants produce Nod factors that are mostly if not all sulfated and often with an arabinosyl residue as the reducing end glycosylation. Using A. caulinodans mutant strains, affected in reducing end decorations, and their respective transconjugants in a bean nodulation assay, we demonstrated that bean nodule induction efficiency, in decreasing order, is modulated by the Nod factor reducing end decorations fucose, arabinose or sulfate, and hydrogen.	1999 Sep	Laeremans, T; Laeremans, T; Laeremans; Snoeck, C; Snoeck, C; Snoeck; Mariën, J; Mariën, J; Mariën; Verreth, C; Verreth, C; Verreth; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Promé, J C; Promé, JC; Promé; Vanderleyden, J; Vanderleyden, J; Vanderleyden	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
10391951	Plant-exuded choline is used for rhizobial membrane lipid biosynthesis by phosphatidylcholine synthase.	Phosphatidylcholine is a major lipid of eukaryotic membranes, but found in only few prokaryotes. Enzymatic methylation of phosphatidylethanolamine by phospholipid N-methyltransferase was thought to be the only biosynthetic pathway to yield phosphatidylcholine in bacteria. However, mutants of the microsymbiotic soil bacterium Sinorhizobium (Rhizobium) meliloti, defective in phospholipid N-methyltransferase, form phosphatidylcholine in wild type amounts when choline is provided in the growth medium. Here we describe a second bacterial pathway for phosphatidylcholine biosynthesis involving the novel enzymatic activity, phosphatidylcholine synthase, that forms phosphatidylcholine directly from choline and CDP-diacylglycerol in cell-free extracts of S. meliloti. We further demonstrate that roots of host plants of S. meliloti exude choline and that the amounts of exuded choline are sufficient to allow for maximal phosphatidylcholine biosynthesis in S. meliloti via the novel pathway.	1999 Jul	de Rudder, K E; de Rudder, KE; de Rudder; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Geiger, O; Geiger, O; Geiger	J Biol Chem
10347066	Increase in alfalfa nodulation, nitrogen fixation, and plant growth by specific DNA amplification in Sinorhizobium meliloti.	To improve symbiotic nitrogen fixation on alfalfa plants, Sinorhizobium meliloti strains containing different average copy numbers of a symbiotic DNA region were constructed by specific DNA amplification (SDA). A DNA fragment containing a regulatory gene (nodD1), the common nodulation genes (nodABC), and an operon essential for nitrogen fixation (nifN) from the nod regulon region of the symbiotic plasmid pSyma of S. meliloti was cloned into a plasmid unable to replicate in this organism. The plasmid then was integrated into the homologous DNA region of S. meliloti strains 41 and 1021, which resulted in a duplication of the symbiotic region. Sinorhizobium derivatives carrying further amplification were selected by growing the bacteria in increased concentrations of an antibiotic marker present in the integrated vector. Derivatives of strain 41 containing averages of 3 and 6 copies and a derivative of strain 1021 containing an average of 2.5 copies of the symbiotic region were obtained. In addition, the same region was introduced into both strains as a multicopy plasmid, yielding derivatives with an average of seven copies per cell. Nodulation, nitrogenase activity, plant nitrogen content, and plant growth were analyzed in alfalfa plants inoculated with the different strains. The copy number of the symbiotic region was critical in determining the plant phenotype. In the case of the strains with a moderate increase in copy number, symbiotic properties were improved significantly. The inoculation of alfalfa with these strains resulted in an enhancement of plant growth.	1999 Jun	Castillo, M; Castillo, M; Castillo; Flores, M; Flores, M; Flores; Mavingui, P; Mavingui, P; Mavingui; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios; Hernández, G; Hernández, G; Hernández	Appl Environ Microbiol
10223993	Enhanced nitrogen fixation in a rhizobium etli ntrC mutant that overproduces the bradyrhizobium japonicum symbiotic terminal oxidase cbb3 	The ntrC gene codes for a transcriptional activator protein that modulates gene expression in response to nitrogen. The cytochrome production pattern of a Rhizobium etli ntrC mutant (CFN2012) was studied. CO difference spectral analysis of membranes showed that CFN2012 produced a terminal oxidase similar to the symbiotic terminal oxidase of bacteroids in free-living cells under aerobic conditions, with a characteristic trough at 553 nm. CFN2012 produced two c-type cytochromes with molecular masses of 27 and 32 kDa, in contrast with the wild-type strain, which produced only a 32-kDa c-type cytochrome. The expression levels of the R. etli fixNOQP operon, which codes for terminal oxidase cbb3, were not affected by the ntrC mutation. However, the production levels of the two c-type cytochromes (27 and 32 kDa) were enhanced at least eightfold when the Bradyrhizobium japonicum fixNOQP operon was expressed in CFN2012 from the nptII promoter (pMSfixc), suggesting that these proteins are subunits FixO (27 kDa) and FixP (32 kDa) of cbb3 and that CFN2012/pMSfixc overproduced this terminal oxidase. CFN2012/pMSfixc showed a significant increase in its symbiotic performance as judged by the determination of nitrogenase activities of plants inoculated with this strain, suggesting that the overproduction of cbb3 terminal oxidase correlates with an enhancement in symbiotic nitrogen fixation.	1999 May	Soberon, M; Soberon; Lopez, O; Lopez; Morera, C; Morera; Girard, ML; Girard; Tabche, ML; Tabche; Miranda, J; Miranda	Appl Environ Microbiol
10065560	The nolL gene from Rhizobium etli determines nodulation efficiency by mediating the acetylation of the fucosyl residue in the nodulation factor.	The nodulation factors (Nod factors) of Rhizobium etli and R. loti carry a 4-O-acetyl-L-fucosyl group at the reducing end. It has been claimed, based on sequence analysis, that NolL from R. loti participates in the 4-O-acetylation of the fucosyl residue of the Nod factors, as an acetyl-transferase (D. B. Scott, C. A. Young, J. M. Collins-Emerson, E. A. Terzaghi, E. S. Rockman, P. A. Lewis, and C. E. Pankhurst. Mol. Plant-Microbe Interact. 9:187-197, 1996). Further support for this hypothesis was obtained by studying the production of Nod factors in an R. etli nolL::Km mutant. Chromatographic and mass spectrometry analysis of the Nod factors produced by this strain showed that they lack the acetyl-fucosyl substituent, having a fucosyl group instead. Acetyl-fucosylation was restored upon complementation with a wild-type nolL gene. These results indicate that the nolL gene determines 4-O-acetylation of the fucosyl residue in Nod factors. Analysis of the predicted NolL polypeptide suggests a transmembranal location and that it belongs to the family of integral membrane transacylases (J. M. Slauch, A. A. Lee, M. J. Mahan, and J. J. Mekalanos. J. Bacteriol. 178:5904-5909, 1996). NolL from R. loti was also proposed to function as a transporter; our results show that NolL does not determine a differential secretion of Nod factors from the cell. We also performed plant assays that indicate that acetylation of the fucose conditions efficient nodulation by R. etli of some Phaseolus vulgaris cultivars, as well as of an alternate host (Vigna umbellata).	1999 Mar	Corvera, A; Corvera, A; Corvera; Promé, D; Promé, D; Promé; Promé, J C; Promé, JC; Promé; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
10028247	Diversity of rhizobia associated with Amorpha fruticosa isolated from Chinese soils and description of Mesorhizobium amorphae sp. nov.	Fifty-five Chinese isolates from nodules of Amorpha fruticosa were characterized and compared with the type strains of the species and genera of bacteria which form nitrogen-fixing symbioses with leguminous host plants. A polyphasic approach, which included RFLP of PCR-amplified 16S rRNA genes, multilocus enzyme electrophoresis (MLEE), DNA-DNA hybridization, 16S rRNA gene sequencing, electrophoretic plasmid profiles, cross-nodulation and a phenotypic study, was used in the comparative analysis. The isolates originated from several different sites in China and they varied in their phenotypic and genetic characteristics. The majority of the isolates had moderate to slow growth rates, produced acid on YMA and harboured a 930 kb symbiotic plasmid (pSym). Five different RFLP patterns were identified among the 16S rRNA genes of all the isolates. Isolates grouped by PCR-RFLP of the 16S rRNA genes were also separated into groups by variation in MLEE profiles and by DNA-DNA hybridization. A representative isolate from each of these DNA homology groups had a separate position in a phylogenetic tree as determined from sequencing analysis of the 16S rRNA genes. A new species, Mesorhizobium amorphae, is proposed for the majority of the isolates, which belonged to a moderately slow- to slow-growing, acid-producing group based upon their distinct phylogenetic position, their unique electrophoretic type, their low DNA homology with reference strains representing the species within the genus Mesorhizobium and their distinct phenotypic features. Strain ACCC 19665 was chosen as the type strain for M. amorphae sp. nov.	1999 Jan	Wang, E T; Wang, ET; Wang; van Berkum, P; van Berkum, P; van Berkum; Sui, X H; Sui, XH; Sui; Beyene, D; Beyene, D; Beyene; Chen, W X; Chen, WX; Chen; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Int J Syst Bacteriol
9847141	RegulonDB (version 2.0): a database on transcriptional regulation in Escherichia coli.	RegulonDB version 2.0, a database on transcriptional regulation and operon organization in Escherichia coli, is now available on the web at the following URL: http://www.cifn.unam. mx/Computational_Biology/regulondb/. In this paper we describe the main computational changes to the database, which include migrating the database to Sybase, providing graphical descriptions of the internal organization of operons and regulons, and direct links to MEDLINE references. The web interface offers searching either by mechanisms of regulation or by operon organization. The results of a search (operon organization, or site collection) are displayed as hypertext, and can also be displayed graphically. In terms of its contents, RegulonDB contains a large number of operons, as well as the absolute position in the completed genome sequence of sites, promoters, and individual genes of E.coli.	1999 Jan	Salgado, H; Salgado, H; Salgado; Santos, A; Santos, A; Santos; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos; van Helden, J; van Helden, J; van Helden; Díaz, E; Díaz, E; Díaz; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
10235650	The modularity of biological regulatory networks.	A useful approach to complex regulatory networks consists of modeling their elements and interactions by Boolean equations. In this context, feedback circuits (i.e. circular sequences of interactions) have been shown to play key dynamical roles: whereas positive circuits are able to generate multistationarity, negative circuits may generate oscillatory behavior. In this paper, we principally focus on the case of gene networks. These are represented by fully connected Boolean networks where each element interacts with all elements including itself. Flexibility in network design is introduced by the use of Boolean parameters, one associated with each interaction or group of interactions affecting a given element. Within this formalism, a feedback circuit will generate its typical dynamical behavior (i.e. multistationarity or oscillations) only for appropriate values of some of the logical parameters. Whenever it does, we say that the circuit is 'functional'. More interestingly, this formalism allows the computation of the constraints on the logical parameters to have any feedback circuit functional in a network. Using this methodology, we found that the fraction of the total number of consistent combinations of parameter values that make a circuit functional decreases geometrically with the circuit length. From a biological point of view, this suggests that regulatory networks could be decomposed into small and relatively independent feedback circuits or 'regulatory modules'.	1999 Apr	Thieffry, D; Thieffry, D; Thieffry; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero	Biosystems
9773278	Isolation and sequencing of a second Rhizobium tropici CFN299 genetic locus that contains genes homologous to amino acid sulphate activation genes.	A Rhizobium tropici CFN299 DNA region, homologous to genes involved in Nod factor synthesis and amino acid sulphate activation, was isolated from a genome library. DNA sequence analysis revealed two open reading frames, orf1 and orf2. orf1 showed highest sequence similarity to the Escherichia coli cysD gene while orf2 is closely related to Rhizobium sp. N33 nodQ. However, the orf2 deduced peptide is 152 amino acids shorter than Rhizobium sp. N33 NodQ, and lacks the 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulphate-binding motif. A dendrogram based on the alignment of the deduced amino acid sequences of orf2/nodQ/cysN genes separated Escherichia coli cysN and orf2 from the nodQ cluster. Upstream of orf1, partial sequence analysis revealed the 3' part of an orf that is highly similar to E. coli cysH. The G + C content of orf1 and orf2 differs significantly from the G + C content of R. tropici symbiotic sulphate activation nodPQ genes. This data suggests that the isolated R. tropici CFN299 locus contains housekeeping genes for amino acid sulphate activation.	1998 Mar	Laeremans, T; Laeremans, T; Laeremans; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Vanderleyden, J; Vanderleyden, J; Vanderleyden	DNA Seq
9924818	Phylogenetic identification of two major nitrogen-fixing bacteria associated with sugarcane.	Acetobacter diazotrophicus and Herbaspirillum seropedicae were identified by genetic methods based on 16S rRNA sequences. A specific PCR method in combination with probing was developed for A. diazotrophicus. The PCR system includes four primers, of which the primers named AC (CTGTTTCCCGCAAGGGAC) and DI (GCGCCCCATTGCTGGGTT) generated an 445 bp amplicon in all of the 11 A. diazotrophicus strains tested. The phylogenetic position of H. seropedicae was determined. H. seropedicae forms with Oxalobacter formigenes a separate lineage in the beta-subclass of Proteobacteria.	1998 Dec	Sievers, M; Sievers, M; Sievers; Schlegel, H G; Schlegel, HG; Schlegel; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Döbereiner, J; Döbereiner, J; Döbereiner; Ludwig, W; Ludwig, W; Ludwig	Syst Appl Microbiol
9811668	Three replicons of Rhizobium sp. Strain NGR234 harbor symbiotic gene sequences.	Rhizobium sp. strain NGR234 contains three replicons: the symbiotic plasmid or pNGR234a, a megaplasmid (pNGR234b), and the chromosome. Symbiotic gene sequences not present in pNGR234a were analyzed by hybridization. DNA sequences homologous to the genes fixLJKNOPQGHIS were found on the chromosome, while sequences homologous to nodPQ and exoBDFLK were found on pNGR234b.	1998 Nov	Flores, M; Flores, M; Flores; Mavingui, P; Mavingui, P; Mavingui; Girard, L; Girard, L; Girard; Perret, X; Perret, X; Perret; Broughton, W J; Broughton, WJ; Broughton; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Dávila, G; Dávila, G; Dávila; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios	J Bacteriol
9748438	Poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate turnover in Azorhizobium caulinodans is required for growth and affects nifA expression.	Azorhizobium caulinodans is able to fix nitrogen in the free-living state and in symbiosis with the tropical legume Sesbania rostrata. The bacteria accumulate poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate (PHB) under both conditions. The structural gene for PHB synthase, phbC, was inactivated by insertion of an interposon. The mutant strains obtained were devoid of PHB, impaired in their growth properties, totally devoid of nitrogenase activity ex planta (Nif-), and affected in nucleotide pools and induced Fix- nodules devoid of bacteria. The Nif- phenotype was the consequence of the lack of nifA transcription. Nitrogenase activity was partially restored to a phbC mutant by constitutive expression of the nifA gene. However, this constitutive nifA expression had no effect on the nucleotide content or on growth of the phbC mutant. It is suggested that PHB is required for maintaining the reducing power of the cell and therefore the bacterial growth. These observations also suggest a new control of nifA expression to adapt nitrogen fixation to the availability of carbon and reducing equivalents.	1998 Oct	Mandon, K; Mandon, K; Mandon; Michel-Reydellet, N; Michel-Reydellet, N; Michel-Reydellet; Encarnación, S; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Kaminski, P A; Kaminski, PA; Kaminski; Leija, A; Leija, A; Leija; Cevallos, M A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Elmerich, C; Elmerich, C; Elmerich; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
9682052	Prediction of transcriptional regulatory sites in the complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.	As one of the best-characterized free-living organisms, Escherichia coli and its recently completed genomic sequence offer a special opportunity to exploit systematically the variety of regulatory data available in the literature in order to make a comprehensive set of regulatory predictions in the whole genome.	1998 Jun	Thieffry, D; Thieffry, D; Thieffry; Salgado, H; Salgado, H; Salgado; Huerta, A M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Bioinformatics
9719638	Extracting regulatory sites from the upstream region of yeast genes by computational analysis of oligonucleotide frequencies.	We present here a simple and fast method allowing the isolation of DNA binding sites for transcription factors from families of coregulated genes, with results illustrated in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Although conceptually simple, the algorithm proved efficient for extracting, from most of the yeast regulatory families analyzed, the upstream regulatory sequences which had been previously found by experimental analysis. Furthermore, putative new regulatory sites are predicted within upstream regions of several regulons. The method is based on the detection of over-represented oligonucleotides. A specificity of this approach is to define the statistical significance of a site based on tables of oligonucleotide frequencies observed in all non-coding sequences from the yeast genome. In contrast with heuristic methods, this oligonucleotide analysis is rigorous and exhaustive. Its range of detection is however limited to relatively simple patterns: short motifs with a highly conserved core. These features seem to be shared by a good number of regulatory sites in yeast. This, and similar methods, should be increasingly required to identify unknown regulatory elements within the numerous new coregulated families resulting from measurements of gene expression levels at the genomic scale. All tools described here are available on the web at the site http://copan.cifn.unam.mx/Computational_Biology/ yeast-tools	1998 Sep	van Helden, J; van Helden, J; van Helden; André, B; André, B; André; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	J Mol Biol
9782512	Glutamine biosynthesis and the utilization of succinate and glutamine by Rhizobium etli and Sinorhizobium meliloti.	Sinorhizobium meliloti 1021 and Rhizobium etli CE3 turn over nitrogen and carbon from glutamine to ammonium and CO2, respectively. Some of the ammonium released is assimilated back into glutamine, indicating that a glutamine cycle similar to that in Neurospora operates in Rhizobium. In addition, a previously unrecognized metabolic pathway in Rhizobium was discovered--namely, conversion of glutamine-carbon to gamma-hydroxybutyric acid and beta-hydroxybutyric acid. Additionally, some of the 2-oxoglutarate derived from glutamine catabolism in Rhizobium is converted to succinate in glutamine-containing medium. Both S. meliloti 1021 and R. etli CE3 oxidize succinate preferentially over glutamine when provided with both carbon sources. In contrast to Sinorhizobium meliloti 1021 and Rhizobium etli CE3, an S. meliloti double mutant that lacks both glutamine synthetase (GS) I and II preferentially oxidizes glutamine over succinate when supplied with both substrates. GSII activity is induced in wild-type S. meliloti 1021 and R. etli CE3 grown in succinate-glutamine medium, and this enzyme participates in the cycling of glutamine-carbon and -nitrogen. On the other hand, GSII activity is repressed in both micro-organisms when glutamine is the only carbon source. These findings show that, in medium containing both glutamine and succinate, glutamine synthesis helps drive the utilization of succinate. When glutamine is in excess as an energy-providing substrate its synthesis is restricted, allowing for more effective utilization of glutamine as an energy source.	1998 Sep	Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Calderón, Jorge; Calderón, J; Calderón; Gelbard, Alan S; Gelbard, AS; Gelbard; Cooper, Arthur J L; Cooper, AJL; Cooper; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	Microbiology (Reading)
9671027	Rhizobium tropici teu genes involved in specific uptake of Phaseolus vulgaris bean-exudate compounds.	Rhizobium tropici nodulates and fixes nitrogen in bean. In the R. tropici strain CFN299 we identified and characterized teu genes (tropici exudate uptake) induced by bean root exudates, localized by insertion of a promoter-less Tn5-gusA1 transposon. teu genes are present on a plasmid of around 185 kb that is conserved in all R. tropici strains. Proteins encoded by teu genes show similarity to ABC transporters, specifically to ribose transport proteins. No induction of the teu genes was obtained by treatment with root exudates from any of several other plants tested, with the exception of Macroptilium atropurpureum, which is also a host plant for R. tropici. It appears that the inducing compound is characteristic of bean and closely related legumes. It is present in root exudates, but not in seeds. This compound is removed, presumably by metabolism, from the exudates by the majority of bean-nodulating rhizobia (such as R. etli, R. leguminosarum bv. phaseoli and R. giardinii). The principal inducing compound has not been identified, but some induction was obtained using trigonelline. The CFN299 strain seems to have an additional uptake system, as no phenotype is observed in two different mutants. R. tropici strain CIAT899, on the other hand, must have only one uptake system, since a mutant bearing an insertion in the teu genes could not remove the compound from the exudates as efficiently as the wild type, and it showed diminished nodulation competitiveness.	1998 Jun	Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Hynes, M F; Hynes, MF; Hynes; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Mol Gen Genet
9649445	lambda bar minigene-mediated inhibition of protein synthesis involves accumulation of peptidyl-tRNA and starvation for tRNA.	Expression of the bacteriophage lambda two-codon, AUG AUA, barI minigene (bar+) leads to the arrest of protein synthesis in cells defective in peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase (Pth). It has been hypothesized that translation of the bar+ transcript provokes premature release and accumulation of peptidyl-tRNA (p-tRNA). Inhibition of protein synthesis would then result from either starvation of sequestered tRNA or from toxicity of accumulated p-tRNA. To test this hypothesis and to investigate the cause of arrest, we used a coupled in vitro transcription-translation system primed with DNA containing bar+ and the beta-lactamase-encoding gene of the vector as a reporter. The results show that expression of bar+ minigene severely inhibits beta-lactamase polypeptide synthesis by Pth-defective extracts and partially inhibits synthesis by wild-type extracts. Fractions enriched for Pth, or a homogeneous preparation of Pth, prevented and reversed bar+-mediated inhibition. A mutant minigene, barA702, which changes the second codon AUA (Ile) to AAA (Lys), was also toxic for Pth-defective cells. Expression of barA702 inhibited in vitro polypeptide synthesis by Pth-defective extracts and, as with bar+, exogenous Pth prevented inhibition. Addition of pure tRNALys prevented inhibition by barA702 but not by bar+. Expression of bar+ and barA702 led to release and accumulation of p-tRNAIle and p-tRNALys respectively but bar+ also induced accumulation of p-tRNALys. Finally, bar+ stimulated association of methionine with ribosomes probably as fMet-tRNAfMet and the accumulation of methionine and isoleucine in solution as peptidyl-tRNA (p-tRNA). These results indicate that minigene-mediated inhibition of protein synthesis involves premature release of p-tRNA, misincorporation of amino acyl-tRNA, accumulation of p-tRNAs and possibly sequestration of tRNAs.	1998 Jul	Hernández-Sánchez, J; Hernández-Sánchez, J; Hernández-Sánchez; Valadez, J G; Valadez, JG; Valadez; Herrera, J V; Herrera, JV; Herrera; Ontiveros, C; Ontiveros, C; Ontiveros; Guarneros, G; Guarneros, G; Guarneros	EMBO J
9734023	Rhizobium huautlense sp. nov., a symbiont of Sesbania herbacea that has a close phylogenetic relationship with Rhizobium galegae.	The nitrogen-fixing rhizobial symbionts of Sesbania herbacea growing in the nature reserve at the Sierra de Huautla, Mexico, were isolated and characterized. All 104 isolates together with the type strain for Rhizobium galegae, HAMBI 540T, had similar 16S rRNA genes as revealed by PCR-RFLP analysis. Similarity in the sequences of the 16S rRNA genes placed the isolates on a phylogenetic branch shared with R. galegae. Among 66 randomly selected isolates, three closely related electrophoretic alloenzyme types (ETs) were identified, which were distinct from 10 ETs distinguished among 23 strains of R. galegae. A new species Rhizobium huautlense, represented by the Sesbania isolate SO2T, is proposed based upon low estimates of DNA relatedness between our chosen type strain and the type strains for the other species, the dissimilarity of the nucleotide sequence of the 16S rRNA genes, and their distinct ETs compared with R. galegae. The description of R. huautlense is significant because in the reconstruction of the phylogeny at R. huautlense there was a shift in the node of the branch of Agrobacterium vitis relative to that of R. galegae. The revised phylogenetic tree would tend to indicate common ancestry between R. galegae and Rhizobium leguminosarum.	1998 Jul	Wang, E T; Wang, ET; Wang; van Berkum, P; van Berkum, P; van Berkum; Beyene, D; Beyene, D; Beyene; Sui, X H; Sui, XH; Sui; Dorado, O; Dorado, O; Dorado; Chen, W X; Chen, WX; Chen; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Int J Syst Bacteriol
9603874	Genes essential for nod factor production and nodulation are located on a symbiotic amplicon (AMPRtrCFN299pc60) in Rhizobium tropici.	Amplifiable DNA regions (amplicons) have been identified in the genome of Rhizobium etli. Here we report the isolation and molecular characterization of a symbiotic amplicon of Rhizobium tropici. To search for symbiotic amplicons, a cartridge containing a kanamycin resistance marker that responds to gene dosage and conditional origins of replication and transfer was inserted in the nodulation region of the symbiotic plasmid (pSym) of R. tropici CFN299. Derivatives harboring amplifications were selected by increasing the concentration of kanamycin in the cell culture. The amplified DNA region was mobilized into Escherichia coli and then into Agrobacterium tumefaciens. The 60-kb symbiotic amplicon, which we termed AMPRtrCFN299pc60, contains several nodulation and nitrogen fixation genes and is flanked by a novel insertion sequence ISRtr1. Amplification of AMPRtrCFN299pc60 through homologous recombination between ISRtr1 repeats increased the amount of Nod factors. Strikingly, the conjugal transfer of the amplicon into a plasmidless A. tumefaciens strain confers on the transconjugant the ability to produce R. tropici Nod factors and to nodulate Phaseolus vulgaris, indicating that R. tropici genes essential for the nodulation process are confined to an ampliable DNA region of the pSym.	1998 Jun	Mavingui, P; Mavingui, P; Mavingui; Laeremans, T; Laeremans, T; Laeremans; Flores, M; Flores, M; Flores; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios	J Bacteriol
9611191	Multiple recombination events maintain sequence identity among members of the nitrogenase multigene family in Rhizobium etli.	A distinctive characteristic of the Rhizobium genome is the frequent finding of reiterated sequences, which often constitute multigene families. Interestingly, these families usually maintain a high degree of nucleotide sequence identity. It is commonly assumed that apparent gene conversion between reiterated elements might lead to concerted variation among members of a multigene family. However, the operation of this mechanism has not yet been demonstrated in the Rhizobiaceae. In this work, we employed different genetic constructions to address the role of apparent gene conversion as a homogenizing mechanism between members of the plasmid-located nitrogenase multigene family in Rhizobium etli. Our results show that a 28-bp insertion into one of the nitrogenase reiterations can be corrected by multiple recombination events, including apparent gene conversion. The correction process was dependent on the presence of both a wild-type recA gene and wild-type copies of the nitrogenase reiterations. Frequencies of apparent gene conversion to the wild-type nitrogenase reiterations were the same when the insertion to be corrected was located either in cis or in trans, indicating that this event frequently occurs through intermolecular interactions. Interestingly, a high frequency of multiple crossovers was observed, suggesting that these large plasmid molecules are engaging repeatedly in recombination events, in a situation akin to phage recombination or recombination among small, high-copy number plasmids.	1998 Jun	Rodríguez, C; Rodríguez, C; Rodríguez; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero	Genetics
9715754	Networks of transcriptional regulation encoded in a grammatical model.	The work here presented enriches a previous grammatical model of the transcriptional regulation of gene expression. The previous model is centered on the representation of the regulatory regions upstream of genes, and their internal organization in the DNA. This paper is centered in discussing some alternatives related to the representation of the organization of operons and their alternative states of transcription, as active or inactive units of transcription. Transformational rules can be used to describe the binding and unbinding of regulatory proteins, and the associated representations of (ON/OFF) gene expression. The initial representation of a regulated promoter is linked to that of the operon encoding its regulatory protein. In this way the representation of a regulated operon depends on that of all others regulating its transcription, enabling in principle the encoding of regulatory networks within an expanded grammatical model of gene regulation.	1998 Jun-Jul	Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Gutièrrez-Ríos, R M; Gutièrrez-Ríos, RM; Gutièrrez-Ríos; Bel-Enguix, G; Bel-Enguix, G; Bel-Enguix	Biosystems
9729766	Tricarboxylic acid cycle and anaplerotic enzymes in rhizobia.	Rhizobia are a diverse group of Gram-negative bacteria comprised of the genera Rhizobium, Bradyrhizobium, Mesorhizobium, Sinorhizobium and Azorhizobium. A unifying characteristic of the rhizobia is their capacity to reduce (fix) atmospheric nitrogen in symbiotic association with a compatible plant host. Symbiotic nitrogen fixation requires a substantial input of energy from the rhizobial symbiont. This review focuses on recent studies of rhizobial carbon metabolism which have demonstrated the importance of a functional tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle in allowing rhizobia to efficiently colonize the plant host and/or develop an effective nitrogen fixing symbiosis. Several anaplerotic pathways have also been shown to maintain TCA cycle activity under specific conditions. Biochemical and physiological characterization of carbon metabolic mutants, along with the analysis of cloned genes and their corresponding gene products, have greatly advanced our understanding of the function of enzymes such as citrate synthase, oxoglutarate dehydrogenase, pyruvate carboxylase and malic enzymes. However, much remains to be learned about the control and function of these and other key metabolic enzymes in rhizobia.	1998 Jun	Dunn, M F; Dunn, MF; Dunn	FEMS Microbiol Rev
9670816	From specific gene regulation to genomic networks: a global analysis of transcriptional regulation in Escherichia coli.	Because a large number of molecular mechanisms involved in gene regulation have been described during the last decades, it is now becoming possible to address questions about the global structure of gene regulatory networks, at least in the case of some of the best-characterized organisms. This paper presents a global characterization of the transcriptional regulation in Escherichia coli on the basis of the current data. The connectivity of the corresponding network was evaluated by analyzing the distribution of the number of genes regulated by a given regulatory protein, and the distribution of the number of regulatory genes regulating a given regulated gene. The mean connectivity found (between 2 and 3) shows a rather loosely interconnected structure. Special emphasis is given to circular sequences of interactions ("circuits") because of their critical dynamical properties. Only one-element circuits were found, in which negative autoregulation is the dominant architecture. These global properties are discussed in light of several pertinent theoretical approaches, as well as in terms of physiological and evolutionary considerations.	1998 May	Thieffry, D; Thieffry, D; Thieffry; Huerta, A M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Bioessays
9450332	NifA-dependent expression of glutamate dehydrogenase in Rhizobium etli modifies nitrogen partitioning during symbiosis.	Constitutive expression of foreign glutamate dehydrogenase in Rhizobium etli inhibits bean plant nodulation (A. Mendoza, A. Leija, E. Martínez-Romero, G. Hernández, and J. Mora. Mol. Plant-Microbe Interact. 8:584-592, 1995). Here we report that this inhibition is overcome when controlling gdhA expression by NifA, thus delaying the GDH activity onset after nodule establishment. Expression of gdhA modifies the nitrogen partitioning inside the bacteroid, where newly synthesized ammonia is preferentially incorporated into the amino acid pool instead of being exported to the infected cells. As a consequence, the fixed nitrogen transport to the leaves, measured as the ureides content in xylem sap, is significantly reduced. Nitrogenase activity, although not nifHDK expression, is significantly reduced in bacteroids expressing gdhA, probably due to the utilization of energy and reducing power for nitrogen assimilation. Here we show that ammonia assimilation inside R. etli bacteroids is active, albeit at low levels, and when enhanced is deleterious to the symbiotic performance. This leads us to believe that further reduction of the basal nitrogen metabolism in the bacteroid might stimulate the nitrogenase activity and increase the nitrogen supply to the plant.	1998 Feb	Mendoza, A; Mendoza, A; Mendoza; Valderrama, B; Valderrama, B; Valderrama; Leija, A; Leija, A; Leija; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
9466899	Genomic position analyses and the transcription machinery.	Position analyses have been devised to extract additional transcriptional information from rapidly expanding genomic data bases. The locations of promoter regulatory sites and also the locations of transcription factor DNA-binding domains are analyzed. Strongly preferred positions of activator binding sites occur in both Escherichia coli and eukaryotes, suggesting specific common features of transcription in the two systems. In both systems, regulatory proteins are found to have their DNA-binding domains near termini and the data suggest an evolutionary analysis that complements a phylogenetic analysis based on sequence alignments. The results indicate that positional information can be an important adjunct to sequence comparisons in analyzing genomic information.	1998 Jan	Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda; Gralla, J D; Gralla, JD; Gralla; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	J Mol Biol
9399800	RegulonDB: a database on transcriptional regulation in Escherichia coli.	RegulonDB is a DataBase that integrates biological knowledge of the mechanisms that regulate the transcription initiation in Escherichia coli , as well as knowledge on the organization of the genes and regulatory signals into operons in the chromosome. The operon is the basic structure used in RegulonDB to describe the elements and properties of transcriptional regulation. The current version contains information around some 500 regulation mechanisms, essentially for sigma 70 promoters.	1998 Jan	Huerta, A M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Salgado, H; Salgado, H; Salgado; Thieffry, D; Thieffry, D; Thieffry; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
9435112	Regulation of pyruvate carboxylase in Rhizobium etli.	Pyruvate carboxylase (PYC) is a biotin-dependent enzyme catalyzing the anaplerotic conversion of pyruvate to oxaloacetate in Rhizobium etli strain CE3. A pyc::Tn5 mutant had severely reduced growth, or failed to grow on sugars, three-carbon organic acids or glycerol, consistent with these substrates being metabolized via pyruvate. Transconjugants expressing a pyc::beta-glucuronidase gene fusion had slightly increased apparent pyc transcription during growth on pyruvate as compared to succinate, similar to the modest carbon source dependent changes in PYC activity reported previously. Biotin supplementation of cultures growing on pyruvate dramatically increased PYC activity but not apparent pyc transcription. Bacteroids isolated from bean nodules did not contain detectable PYC activity while apparent pyc transcription occurred at a moderate level.	1997 Dec	Dunn, M F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Araíza, G; Araíza, G; Araíza; Cevallos, M A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	FEMS Microbiol Lett
9421916	Functional redundancy of genes for sulphate activation enzymes in Rhizobium sp. BR816.	The broad-host-range, heat-tolerant Rhizobium strain BR816 produces sulphated Nod metabolites. Two ORFs highly homologous to the Sinorhizobium meliloti nodPQ genes were isolated and sequenced. It was found that Rhizobium sp. BR816 contained two copies of these genes; one copy was localized on the symbiotic plasmid, the other on the megaplasmid. Both nodP genes were interrupted by insertion of antibiotic resistance cassettes, thus constructing a double nodP1P2 mutant strain. However, no detectable differences in Nod factor TLC profile from this mutant were observed as compared to the wild-type strain. Additionally, plant inoculation experiments did not reveal differences between the mutant strain and the wild-type. It is proposed that a third, functionally homologous locus complements mutations in the Nod factor sulphation genes. Southern blot analysis suggested that this locus contains genes necessary for the sulphation of amino acids.	1997 Dec	Laeremans, T; Laeremans, T; Laeremans; Coolsaet, N; Coolsaet, N; Coolsaet; Verreth, C; Verreth, C; Verreth; Snoeck, C; Snoeck, C; Snoeck; Hellings, N; Hellings, N; Hellings; Vanderleyden, J; Vanderleyden, J; Vanderleyden; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Microbiology (Reading)
9442891	Gene amplification and genomic plasticity in prokaryotes.	Gene amplification is a common feature of the genome of prokaryotic organisms. In this review, we analyze different instances of gene amplification in a variety of prokaryotes, including their mechanisms of generation and biological role. Growing evidence supports the concept that gene amplification be considered not as a mutation but rather as a dynamic genomic state related to the adaptation of bacterial populations to changing environmental conditions or biological interactions. In this context, the potentially amplifiable DNA regions impose a defined dynamic structure on the genome. If such structure has indeed been selected during evolution, it is a particularly challenging hypothesis.	1997	Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios	Annu Rev Genet
9371431	Expression of thiamin biosynthetic genes (thiCOGE) and production of symbiotic terminal oxidase cbb3 in Rhizobium etli.	In this paper we report the cloning and sequence analysis of four genes, located on plasmid pb, which are involved in the synthesis of thiamin in Rhizobium etli (thiC, thiO, thiG, and thiE). Two precursors, 4-methyl-5-(beta-hydroxyethyl)thiazole monophosphate and 4-amino-5-hydroxymethylpyrimidine pyrophosphate, are coupled to form thiamin monophosphate, which is then phosphorylated to make thiamin pyrophosphate. The first open reading frame (ORF) product, of 610 residues, has significant homology (69% identity) with the product of thiC from Escherichia coli, which is involved in the synthesis of hydroxymethylpyrimidine. The second ORF product, of 327 residues, is the product of a novel gene denoted thiO. A protein motif involved in flavin adenine dinucleotide binding was found in the amino-terminal part of ThiO; also, residues involved in the catalytic site of D-amino acid oxidases are conserved in ThiO, suggesting that it catalyzes the oxidative deamination of some intermediate of thiamin biosynthesis. The third ORF product, of 323 residues, has significant homology (38% identity) with ThiG from E. coli, which is involved in the synthesis of the thiazole. The fourth ORF product, of 204 residues, has significant homology (47% identity) with the product of thiE from E. coli, which is involved in the condensation of hydroxymethylpyrimidine and thiazole. Strain CFN037 is an R. etli mutant induced by a single Tn5mob insertion in the promoter region of the thiCOGE gene cluster. The Tn5mob insertion in CFN037 occurred within a 39-bp region which is highly conserved in all of the thiC promoters analyzed and promotes constitutive expression of thiC. Primer extension analysis showed that thiC transcription in strain CFN037 originates within the Tn5 element. Analysis of c-type protein content and expression of the fixNOQP operon, which codes for the symbiotic terminal oxidase cbb3, revealed that CFN037 produces the cbb3 terminal oxidase. These data show a direct relationship between expression of thiC and production of the cbb3 terminal oxidase. This is consistent with the proposition that a purine-related metabolite, 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide ribonucleotide, is a negative effector of the production of the symbiotic terminal oxidase cbb3 in R. etli.	1997 Nov	Miranda-Ríos, J; Miranda-Ríos, J; Miranda-Ríos; Morera, C; Morera, C; Morera; Taboada, H; Taboada, H; Taboada; Dávalos, A; Dávalos, A; Dávalos; Encarnación, S; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora; Soberón, M; Soberón, M; Soberón	J Bacteriol
9336911	Biodiversity of bradyrhizobia nodulating Lupinus spp.	The genetic structure of Bradyrhizobium isolates recovered from three Lupinus species (Lupinus campestris, Lupinus montanus, and Lupinus exaltatus) grown in Mexico was examined. Among 41 Bradyrhizobium isolates, 18 electrophoretic types (ETs) were distinguished by multilocus enzyme electrophoresis of five metabolic enzymes. The mean genetic diversity, 0.64, indicated that there was great genetic diversity in the population sampled. Most isolates (63%) fell into two closely related clusters (clusters I and II) and were the types most frequently isolated from the root nodules of L. montanus and L. campestris. ET cluster III isolates were frequent nodule occupants of L. exaltatus. The isolates also were assigned to three main groups by using Curie point pyrolysis mass spectrometry. In general, the multilocus enzyme electrophoretic data and pyrolysis mass spectrometric data agreed. We determined the 16S rRNA sequences of representative Lupinus isolates and of Bradyrhizobium japonicum USDA 6T and found that the lupine isolates were highly related to the B. japonicum type strain, although not all B. japonicum type strains (subcultures maintained in different bacterial collections) had identical small-subunit rRNA.	1997 Oct	Barrera, L L; Barrera, LL; Barrera; Trujillo, M E; Trujillo, ME; Trujillo; Goodfellow, M; Goodfellow, M; Goodfellow; García, F J; García, FJ; García; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Dávila, G; Dávila, G; Dávila; van Berkum, P; van Berkum, P; van Berkum; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Int J Syst Bacteriol
9278503	The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.	The 4,639,221-base pair sequence of Escherichia coli K-12 is presented. Of 4288 protein-coding genes annotated, 38 percent have no attributed function. Comparison with five other sequenced microbes reveals ubiquitous as well as narrowly distributed gene families; many families of similar genes within E. coli are also evident. The largest family of paralogous proteins contains 80 ABC transporters. The genome as a whole is strikingly organized with respect to the local direction of replication; guanines, oligonucleotides possibly related to replication and recombination, and most genes are so oriented. The genome also contains insertion sequence (IS) elements, phage remnants, and many other patches of unusual composition indicating genome plasticity through horizontal transfer.	1997 Sep	Blattner, F R; Blattner, FR; Blattner; Plunkett, G; Plunkett, G; Plunkett; Bloch, C A; Bloch, CA; Bloch; Perna, N T; Perna, NT; Perna; Burland, V; Burland, V; Burland; Riley, M; Riley, M; Riley; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Glasner, J D; Glasner, JD; Glasner; Rode, C K; Rode, CK; Rode; Mayhew, G F; Mayhew, GF; Mayhew; Gregor, J; Gregor, J; Gregor; Davis, N W; Davis, NW; Davis; Kirkpatrick, H A; Kirkpatrick, HA; Kirkpatrick; Goeden, M A; Goeden, MA; Goeden; Rose, D J; Rose, DJ; Rose; Mau, B; Mau, B; Mau; Shao, Y; Shao, Y; Shao	Science
9304861	Characterization of two plasmid-borne lps beta loci of Rhizobium etli required for lipopolysaccharide synthesis and for optimal interaction with plants.	In Rhizobium etli CFN42, both the symbiotic plasmid (pd) and plasmid b (pb) are required for effective bean nodulation. This is due to the presence on pb of a region (lps beta) involved in lipopolysaccharide (LPS) biosynthesis. We report here the genetic array and functional features of this plasmid-borne region. The sequence analysis of a 3,595-bp fragment revealed the presence of a transcriptional unit integrated by two open reading frames (lps beta 1 and lps beta 2) essential for LPS biosynthesis and symblosis. The lps beta 1 encodes a putative 193 amino acid polypeptide that shows strong homology with glucosyl-1P and galactosyl-1P transferases. The deduced amino acid sequence of the protein encoded by lps beta 2 was very similar to that of proteins involved in surface polysaccharide biosynthesis, such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa WpbM, Bordetella pertussis BpIL, and Yersinia enterocolitica TrsG. DNA sequences homologous to lps beta 1 and lps beta 2 of R. etli CFN42 were consistently found in functionally equivalent plasmids of R. etli, R. leguminosarum bv. viciae, and R. leguminosarum hv. trifolii strains, but not in R. meliloti, R. loti, R. tropici, R. fredii, Bradyrhizobium, Azorhizobium, and Agrobacterium tumefaciens. Even though Rhizobium and Agrobacterium do not share lps beta sequences, their presence is required for crown-gall tumor induction by R. etli transconjugants carrying the Ti plasmid.	1997 Sep	García-de los Santos, A; García-de los Santos, A; García-de los Santos; Brom, S; Brom, S; Brom	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
9293018	Coffea arabica L., a new host plant for Acetobacter diazotrophicus, and isolation of other nitrogen-fixing acetobacteria.	Acetobacter diazotrophicus was isolated from coffee plant tissues and from rhizosphere soils. Isolation frequencies ranged from 15 to 40% and were dependent on soil pH. Attempts to isolate this bacterial species from coffee fruit, from inside vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi spores, or from mealybugs (Planococcus citri) associated with coffee plants were not successful. Other acid-producing diazotrophic bacteria were recovered with frequencies of 20% from the coffee rhizosphere. These N2-fixing isolates had some features in common with the genus Acetobacter but should not be assigned to the species Acetobacter diazotrophicus because they differed from A. diazotrophicus in morphological and biochemical traits and were largely divergent in electrophoretic mobility patterns of metabolic enzymes at coefficients of genetic distance as high as 0.950. In addition, these N2-fixing acetobacteria differed in the small-subunit rRNA restriction fragment length polymorphism patterns obtained with EcoRI, and they exhibited very low DNA-DNA homology levels, ranging from 11 to 15% with the A. diazotrophicus reference strain PAI 5T. Thus, some of the diazotrophic acetobacteria recovered from the rhizosphere of coffee plants may be regarded as N2-fixing species of the genus Acetobacter other than A. diazotrophicus. Endophytic diazotrophic bacteria may be more prevalent than previously thought, and perhaps there are many more potentially beneficial N2-fixing bacteria which can be isolated from other agronomically important crops.	1997 Sep	Jimenez-Salgado, T; Jimenez-Salgado, T; Jimenez-Salgado; Fuentes-Ramirez, L E; Fuentes-Ramirez, LE; Fuentes-Ramirez; Tapia-Hernandez, A; Tapia-Hernandez, A; Tapia-Hernandez; Mascarua-Esparza, M A; Mascarua-Esparza, MA; Mascarua-Esparza; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	Appl Environ Microbiol
9451455	Regulation of protein synthesis by minigene expression.	Peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase (Pth), an enzyme essential for Escherichia coli viability, scavenges peptidyl-tRNA released during abortive polypeptide chain elongation. Bacterial strains of E coli partially defective in Pth activity are unable to maintain bacteriophage lambda growth. Phage mutations that overcome the bacterial defect have been located to several regions in the lambda genome named bar. Plasmid constructs expressing just the bar region are toxic and cause a general arrest of protein synthesis in Pth-defective cells. Inspection of the nucleotide sequence from two bar regions reveals the short coding sequence AUG AUA Stop, spaced by an AT-rich segment from a Shine Dalgarno-like sequence (S-D). These sequences have been named minigenes. Base changes altering the putative S-D, the two sense codons, or the stop codon have been found to reduce Bar-toxicity. Transcripts containing bar function as mRNA. Upon expression in pth mutants, wild-type (bar+) transcripts are found associated with ribosomes. In addition, bar+ RNA forms ternary complexes with the 30S ribosomal subunit and the initiator tRNA and can be released upon run-off translation in the same way as an authentic mRNA. A cell free system for protein synthesis reproduces the in vivo effects: bar+ expression inhibits protein synthesis, bar+ RNA sequences are associated with ribosomes in the inhibited extracts, addition of purified Pth restores synthesis, and excess of tRNA(Lys), specific for the last sense codon in a mutant toxic minigene, prevents protein synthesis inhibition. Also, bar expression promotes association of methionine with ribosomes possibly in a translation complex. These results are consistent with a model proposing tRNA starvation to explain the behaviour of a pth mutant, thermosensitive for protein synthesis.	1997 Sep	Hernández, J; Hernández, J; Hernández; Ontiveros, C; Ontiveros, C; Ontiveros; Valadez, J G; Valadez, JG; Valadez; Buckingham, R H; Buckingham, RH; Buckingham; Guarneros, G; Guarneros, G; Guarneros	Biochimie
9274036	Sequence, localization and characteristics of the replicator region of the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium etli.	The replicator region of the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium etli CFN42 was cloned and sequenced. A plasmid derivative (pH3) harbouring a 5-6 kb HindIII fragment from the symbiotic plasmid was found to be capable of independent replication and eliminated the symbiotic plasmid when introduced into a R. etli CFNX101 strain (a recA derivative). The stability and the copy number of pH3 were the same as that of the symbiotic plasmid, indicating that the information required for stable replication and incompatibility resides in the 5.6 kb HindIII fragment. The sequence analysis of this fragment showed the presence of three ORFs similar in sequence analysis of this fragment showed the presence of three ORFs similar in sequence and organization to repA, repB and repC described for the replicator regions of the Agrobacterium plasmids pTiB653 and pRiA4b and for the R. leguminosarum cryptic plasmid pRL8JI. Hybridization studies showed that p42d-like replicator sequences are found in the symbiotic plasmids of other R. etli strains and in a 'cryptic' plasmid of R. tropici.	1997 Aug	Ramírez-Romero, Miguel A; Ramírez-Romero, MA; Ramírez-Romero; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Rodríguez, Oscar; Rodríguez, O; Rodríguez; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila	Microbiology (Reading)
9226921	Phylogenetic and genetic relationships of Mesorhizobium tianshanense and related rhizobia.	The genetic and phylogenetic relationships for strains of Mesorhizobium tianshanense and its relatives were compared by an analysis of the results of sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) of whole-cell proteins, DNA-DNA hybridization, and full 16S rRNA gene sequencing. The strains of M. tianshanense formed a cluster which was distinct from those of other rhizobium species in the clustering analysis of SDS-PAGE. DNA-DNA relatedness between A-1BS (type strain of M. tianshanense) and the type or reference strains for Mesorhizobium loti, M. huakuii, M. ciceri, M. mediterraneum, and cluster U, an unnamed rhizobial group, ranged from 4.4 to 43.8%. The phylogenetic analysis based on the 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that M. tianshanense was closely related to the Mesorhizobium phylogenetic branch and could be distinguished from the other four species in this branch. These results further confirmed that these bacteria constitute a distinct rhizobial species.	1997 Jul	Tan, Z Y; Tan, ZY; Tan; Xu, X D; Xu, XD; Xu; Wang, E T; Wang, ET; Wang; Gao, J L; Gao, JL; Gao; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Chen, W X; Chen, WX; Chen	Int J Syst Bacteriol
9191062	Inhibition of Escherichia coli protein synthesis by abortive translation of phage lambda minigenes.	Escherichia coli mutants defective in peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase activity are unable to maintain bacteriophage lambda vegetative growth. Phage mutants, named bar, overcome the host limitation to support viral growth. Multicopy expression of lambda wild-type bar regions is deleterious to hydrolase-defective cells because it provokes arrest of protein synthesis. We noticed that the bar regions include minigenes whose transcripts would contain a Shine-Dalgarno-like sequence appropriately spaced for translation from a two codon open reading frame. To investigate the mechanism of bar inhibition, we asked if transcripts of the barI region function as mRNAs in their ribosomal interactions. We found that bar-containing RNA associates with ribosomes, forms ternary initiation complexes, yields a toeprint signal, and can be removed from ribosomes by run-off translation, as authentic mRNA. Since bar-containing RNA has the properties of a messenger, we propose that its translation leads to drop-off and accumulation of peptidyl-tRNA in pth-defective cells. Starvation of the tRNA(s) sequestered in pepidyl-tRNA(s) eventually causes inhibition of protein synthesis.	1997 Jun	Ontiveros, C; Ontiveros, C; Ontiveros; Valadez, J G; Valadez, JG; Valadez; Hernández, J; Hernández, J; Hernández; Guarneros, G; Guarneros, G; Guarneros	J Mol Biol
9202472	A Neurospora crassa mutant altered in the regulation of L-amino acid oxidase.	The isolation and characterization of a Neurospora crassa mutant altered in L-amino oxidase regulation is reported. The previously isolated gln-1bR8 strain, which only synthesizes the glutamine synthetase alpha monomer and lacks the beta monomer, was used as parental strain. A mutant derivative of strain was selected for its ability to grow on minimal medium in the presence of DL-methionine-SR-sulfoximine (MSO), an inhibitor of glutamine synthetase activity. This gln-1bR8;MSOR mutant overcame the inhibitory effect of MSO by increasing the activity of L-amino acid oxidase, an enzyme capable of degrading this compound. In contrast with the wild-type strain, the L-amino acid oxidase of the MSOR mutant was resistant to glutamine repression; in fact, it was induced by this amino acid but repressed by ammonium. This mutant is different from other nitrogen regulatory N. crassa mutants reported and is only altered in the regulation of L-amino acid oxidase. The MSOR mutation is epistatic to nit-2 since the nit2;MSOR double mutant regulated the L-amino acid oxidase in the same way as the MSOR single mutant.	1997 Jun	Calderón, Jorge; Calderón, J; Calderón; Olvera, Leticia; Olvera, L; Olvera; Martínez, Luz María; Martínez, LM; Martínez; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila	Microbiology (Reading)
9181580	Generation of Rhizobium strains with improved symbiotic properties by random DNA amplification (RDA)	To select for bacterial strains with enhanced phenotypes, random fragments of a whole genome, or a defined region of the genome, are cloned in a nonreplicating vector. The resulting plasmids are integrated by recombination into the homologous DNA region of the original strain. Integration gives rise to a nontandem direct duplication of the corresponding DNA region separated by the vector moiety of the plasmid. Recombination between the direct repeats leads to tandem duplication and further amplification of the entire integrated DNA, including the vector. Bacteria harboring the amplified DNA are selected by increasing the dosage of an antibiotic corresponding to a resistance marker of the integrated vector. Pooled strains carrying amplifications are then challenged with a selective pressure for the desired phenotype. After repeated selection cycles, the most fit strains are isolated. We used this process, which we called random DNA amplification, to select Rhizobium strains with increased competitiveness for nodule formation. Derivatives containing randomly amplified DNA regions of the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium tropici CFN299 strain were generated. Pools of amplified strains were inoculated onto various tropical legumes. After several cycles of selection through plants, amplified derivatives showing an increased competitiveness for nodule formation with the leguminous plant Macroptilium atropurpureum were obtained.	1997 Jun	Mavingui, P; Mavingui, P; Mavingui; Flores, M; Flores, M; Flores; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios	Nat Biotechnol
9113990	Bacterial nodulation protein NodZ is a chitin oligosaccharide fucosyltransferase which can also recognize related substrates of animal origin.	The nodZ gene, which is present in various soil bacteria such as Bradyrhizobium japonicum, Azorhizobium caulinodans, and Rhizobium loti, is involved in the addition of a fucosyl residue to the reducing N-acetylglucosamine residue of lipochitin oligosaccharide (LCO) signal molecules. Using an Escherichia coli strain that produces large quantities of the NodZ protein of B. japonicum, we have purified the NodZ protein to homogeneity. The purified NodZ protein appears to be active in an in vitro transfucosylation assay in which GDP-beta-fucose and LCOs or chitin oligosaccharides are used as substrates. The products of the in vitro reaction using chitin oligosaccharides as substrate were studied by using mass spectrometry, linkage analysis, and composition analysis. The data show that one fucose residue is added to C6 of the reducing-terminal N-acetylglucosamine residue. The substrate specificity of NodZ protein was analyzed in further detail, using radiolabeled GDP-beta-fucose as the donor. The results show that chitin oligosaccharides are much better substrates than LCOs, suggesting that in Rhizobium NodZ fucosylates chitin oligosaccharides prior to their acylation. The free glycan core pentasaccharides of N-linked glycoproteins are also substrates for NodZ. Therefore, the NodZ enzyme seems to have an activity equivalent to that of the enzyme involved in the addition of the C6-linked fucosyl substituent in the glycan core of N-linked glycoproteins in eukaryotes. Oligosaccharides that contain only one N-acetylglucosamine at the reducing terminus are also substrates for NodZ, although in this case very high concentrations of such oligosaccharides are needed. An example is the leukocyte antigen Lewis-X, which can be converted by NodZ to a novel fucosylated derivative that could be used for binding studies with E-selectin.	1997 Apr	Quinto, C; Quinto, C; Quinto; Wijfjes, A H; Wijfjes, AH; Wijfjes; Bloemberg, G V; Bloemberg, GV; Bloemberg; Blok-Tip, L; Blok-Tip, L; Blok-Tip; López-Lara, I M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Lugtenberg, B J; Lugtenberg, BJ; Lugtenberg; Thomas-Oates, J E; Thomas-Oates, JE; Thomas-Oates; Spaink, H P; Spaink, HP; Spaink	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
9284644	Contributions of the 'Rouge-Cloître group' to the notion of 'messenger RNA'.	Most biographical and historical works agree on a common scheme and a few 'founding papers' for the 'discovery' of mRNA. However, a closer scrutiny of these 'founding papers' leads to several unresolved questions with respect to the origin of the notion of mRNA. This paper focuses on the analysis of a set of contributions made by the group of the Rouge-Cloître in order to fill in some of the remaining gaps in the 'standard history'.	1997	Thieffry, D; Thieffry, D; Thieffry	Hist Philos Life Sci
9390313	Definite-clause grammars for the analysis of cis-regulatory regions in E. coli.	Based on an extensive collection of sigma 70 associated regulatory mechanisms, a grammatical model has been constructed that define the functional positions and combinations of sites within DNA regulatory regions. The syntactic rules and the dictionary implemented in a Prolog program were coupled to consensus matrices used as "sensors" to integrate a syntactic recognizer. A systematic comparison between the syntactic recognizer and the standard weight matrix methodology is presented using 12 regulatory proteins and the whole collection of about 130 sigma 70 DNA regulatory regions. On the average an increased sensitivity of 5 to 10 fold is obtained with this novel approach.	1997	Thieffry, D; Thieffry, D; Thieffry; Rosenblueth, D A; Rosenblueth, DA; Rosenblueth; Huerta, A M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Salgado, H; Salgado, H; Salgado; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Pac Symp Biocomput
8905154	Towards a unified grammatical model of sigma 70 and sigma 54 bacterial promoters.	The organization and integration of large amounts of information on the regulation of gene expression requires new conceptual frameworks to facilitate the discovery of general principles underlying different mechanisms of gene regulation. I have developed a formalism based on generative grammar to explicitly describe pertinent regulatory properties of mechanisms of regulation. The formal proof that justifies the use of generative grammar has been made. We have collected and analyzed an exhaustive database of sigma 70 and sigma 54 promoters in E coli and Salmonella where there is sufficient knowledge on the regulation of these genes. This collection has supported the construction of a grammatical model of the sigma 70 type of promoters. The purpose of this paper is to present some ideas towards the construction of a unified grammar capable of describing regulatory arrays for the sigma 70 and the sigma 54 bacterial promoters. This model is not intended to simply generate the set of binding sites of regulators distributed in a linear array in the DNA. It should also reflect the biological differences on the regulatory mechanisms of these collections, as understood from the analysis that we have done on these collections (Gralla and Collado-Vides, 1996). Based on the biology of these two types of bacterial promoters, a hypothesis is proposed stipulating that in principle it is feasible to activate sigma 70 promoters at a distance, an exclusive property of the sigma 54 class shared with promoters of higher organisms. The model presented assumes this hypothesis is correct. The ideas presented support the beginning of a unique 'universal' grammar for the sigma 70 and sigma 54 promoters. The specification of certain parameters would derive the respective specific sigma 70 and sigma 54 grammatical models.	1996	Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Biochimie
8996790	Syntactic recognition of regulatory regions in Escherichia coli.	One of the most common methodologies to identify cis-regulatory sites in regulatory regions in the DNA is that of weight matrices, as testified by several articles in this issue. An alternative to strengthen the computational predictions in regulatory regions is to develop methods that incorporate more biological properties present in such DNA regions. The grammatical implementation presented in this paper provides a concrete example in this direction.	1996 Oct	Rosenblueth, D A; Rosenblueth, DA; Rosenblueth; Thieffry, D; Thieffry, D; Thieffry; Huerta, A M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Salgado, H; Salgado, H; Salgado; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Comput Appl Biosci
8830693	Pyruvate carboxylase from Rhizobium etli: mutant characterization, nucleotide sequence, and physiological role.	Pyruvate carboxylase (PYC), a biotin-dependent enzyme which catalyzes the conversion of pyruvate to oxaloacetate, was hypothesized to play an important anaplerotic role in the growth of Rhizobium etli during serial subcultivation in minimal media containing succinate (S. Encarnación, M. Dunn, K. Willms, and J. Mora, J. Bacteriol. 177:3058-3066, 1995). R. etli and R. tropici pyc::Tn5-mob mutants were selected for their inability to grow in minimal medium with pyruvate as a sole carbon source. During serial subcultivation in minimal medium containing 30 mM succinate, the R. etli parent and pyc mutant strains exhibited similar decreases in growth rate with each subculture. Supplementation of the medium with biotin prevented the growth decrease of the parent but not the mutant strain, indicating that PYC was necessary for the growth of R. etli under these conditions. The R. tropici pyc mutant grew normally in subcultures regardless of biotin supplementation. The symbiotic phenotypes of the pyc mutants from both species were similar to those of the parent strains. The R. etli pyc was cloned, sequenced, and found to encode a 126-kDa protein of 1,154 amino acids. The deduced amino acid sequence is highly homologous to other PYC sequences, and the catalytic domains involved in carboxylation, pyruvate binding, and biotinylation are conserved. The sequence and biochemical data show that the R. etli PYC is a member of the alpha4, homotetrameric, acetyl coenzyme A-activated class of PYCs.	1996 Oct	Dunn, M F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Encarnación, S; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Araíza, G; Araíza, G; Araíza; Vargas, M C; Vargas, MC; Vargas; Dávalos, A; Dávalos, A; Dávalos; Peralta, H; Peralta, H; Peralta; Mora, Y; Mora, Y; Mora; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
8755625	Isolation and characterization of Rhizobium tropici Nod factor sulfation genes.	Rhizobium tropici produces a mixture of sulfated and non-sulfated Nod factors. The genes responsible for the sulfation process in R. tropici strain CFN299 were cloned and sequenced. These genes are homologous to the nodP, nodQ, and nodH genes from R. meliloti. The identity among the two species is 75% for nodP, 74% for nodQ, and 69% for nodH. NodH resembles sulfotransferases in general and NodQ has the characteristic purine-binding motifs and the PAPS 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulfate) motif. Mutants of NodP and NodH were obtained by site-directed mutagenesis. They are no longer able to synthesize the sulfated Nod factor, as was demonstrated in high-pressure liquid chromatography and thin-layer chromatography assays. The NodP- mutant had a decreased nodulation capacity in Phaseolus vulgaris Negro Xamapa bean plants. In contrast, NodH- and NodP- mutants acquired an increased capacity to nodulate the high-nitrogen-fixing bean cultivars N-8-116 and BAT-477. Nodulation was restored to normal levels when the mutants were complemented with a 16-kb clone carrying the wild-type genes. The role of the sulfate on Nod factors in R. tropici was dependent on the bean cultivar and the conditions assayed.	1996 Aug	Laeremans, T; Laeremans, T; Laeremans; Caluwaerts, I; Caluwaerts, I; Caluwaerts; Verreth, C; Verreth, C; Verreth; Rogel, M A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Vanderleyden, J; Vanderleyden, J; Vanderleyden; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
8655489	Regulatory proteins and cis-acting elements involved in the transcriptional control of Rhizobium etli reiterated nifH genes.	In Rhizobium etli the nitrogenase reductase genes are reiterated. Strain CE3 has three copies; nifHa and nifHb form part of nifHDK operons with the nitrogenase structural genes, while nifHc is linked to a truncated nifD homolog. Their sequences are identical up to 6 residues upstream from a sigma54-dependent promoter. A remarkable difference among them is the absence of canonical NifA binding sites upstream of nifHc while a canonical binding site is located 200 bp upstream of nifHa and nifHb. To evaluate the transcriptional regulation of the reiterated nifH genes, we constructed fusions of nifHa and nifHc with the lacZ gene of Escherichia coli. Both genes were expressed at maximum levels under 1% oxygen in free-living cultures, and their expression declined as the oxygen concentration was increased. This expression was dependent on the integrity of nifA, and nifHc was expressed at higher levels than nifHa. The same pattern was observed with root nodule bacteroids. Expression of both genes in E. coli required sigma54 in addition to NifA bound to the upstream activator sequence. In vivo dimethyl sulfate footprinting analyses showed that NifA binds to the canonical site upstream of nifHa and to a TGT half-site 6 nucleotides further upstream. NifA protected an imperfect binding site upstream of nijHc at position 85 from the promoter. The integration host factor stimulated each gene differently, nifHa being more dependent on this protein. The above results correlate the asymmetric arrangement of cis-acting elements with a differential expression of the reiterated nifH genes, both in culture and during symbiosis with bean plants.	1996 Jun	Valderrama, B; Valderrama, B; Valderrama; Dávalos, A; Dávalos, A; Dávalos; Girard, L; Girard, L; Girard; Morett, E; Morett, E; Morett; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
24178452	Establishment of transformed root cultures of Perezia cuernavacana producing the sesquiterpene quinone perezone.	The sesquiterpene quinone currently known as perezone is abundantly produced by the roots of Perezia cuernavacana. This compound is of biotechnological interest since it may be used as a pigment and has several pharmacological properties. In this work we demonstrate that perezone is also produced in transformed root cultures of P. cuernavacana. Hairy roots were induced by inoculation of internodal segments of sterile plants of P. cuernavacana with Agrobacterium rhizogenes AR12 strain. The axenic liquid MS medium cultures of the hairy roots isolated from the internodes showed active growth in the absence of growth regulators. The transformed nature of the tissue was confirmed by genomic integration (PCR and slot blot hybridization) and expression (enzyme activity) of the marker gus-gene. The production of perezone by a transformed root culture was evidenced by IR spectroscopy. Our results offer an alternative for enhanced production of perezone and represent an advantage over its extraction from natural plant populations which present problems in their agronomic culture. 	1996 Mar	Arellano, J; Arellano, J; Arellano; Vázquez, F; Vázquez, F; Vázquez; Villegas, T; Villegas, T; Villegas; Hernández, G; Hernández, G; Hernández	Plant Cell Rep
8626293	Genetic and physiological characterization of a Rhizobium etli mutant strain unable to synthesize poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate.	Rhizobium etli accumulates poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate (PHB) in symbiosis and in free life. PHB is a reserve material that serves as a carbon and/or electron sink when optimal growth conditions are not met. It has been suggested that in symbiosis PHB can prolong nitrogen fixation until the last stages of seed development, but experiments to test this proposition have not been done until now. To address these questions in a direct way, we constructed an R. etli PHB-negative mutant by the insertion of an Omega-Km interposon within the PHB synthase structural gene (phaC). The identification and sequence of the R. etli phaC gene are also reported here. Physiological studies showed that the PHB-negative mutant strain was unable to synthesize PHB and excreted more lactate, acetate, pyruvate, beta-hydroxybutyrate, fumarate, and malate than the wild-type strain. The NAD+/NADH ratio in the mutant strain was lower than that in the parent strain. The oxidative capacity of the PHB-negative mutant was reduced. Accordingly, the ability to grow in minimal medium supplemented with glucose or pyruvate was severely diminished in the mutant strain. We propose that in free life PHB synthesis sequesters reductive power, allowing the tricarboxylic acid cycle to proceed under conditions in which oxygen is a limiting factor. In symbiosis with Phaseolus vulgaris, the PHB-negative mutant induced nodules that prolonged the capacity to fix nitrogen.	1996 Mar	Cevallos, M A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Encarnación, S; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Leija, A; Leija, A; Leija; Mora, Y; Mora, Y; Mora; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
24415159	Rhizobium plasmids in bacteria-legume interactions.	The functional analysis of plasmids in Rhizobium strains has concentrated mainly on the symbiotic plasmid (pSym). However, genetic information relevant to both symbiotic and saprophytic Rhizobium life cycles, localized on other 'cryptic' replicons, has also been reported. Information is reviewed which concerns functional features encoded in plasmids other than the pSym: biosynthesis of cell surface polysaccharides, metabolic processes, the utilization of plant exudates, aromatic compounds and diverse sugars, and features involved symbiotic performance. In addition, factors which affect plasmid evolution through their influence on structural features of the plasmids, such as conjugative transfer and genomic rearrangements, is discussed. Based on the overall data, we propose that together the plasmids and the chromosome constitute a fully integrated genomic complex, entailing structural features as well as saprophytic and cellular functions. 	1996 Mar	García-de Los Santos, A; García-de Los Santos, A; García-de Los Santos; Brom, S; Brom, S; Brom; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero	World J Microbiol Biotechnol
8635758	Microbial genes homologous to the peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase-encoding gene of Escherichia coli.	We have cloned and determined the nucleotide (nt) sequences of the genes encoding peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase (Pth) homologues of Salmonella typhi (St) and the Lyme disease spirochaete, Borrelia burgdorferi (Bb). We also completed the nt sequence of a pth homologous gene contained in a Chlamydia trachomatis (Ct) clone identified in the databanks. The open reading frames (ORFs) of the Pth homologues encode putative polypeptides of 194 (St), 188 (Bb) and 194 (Ct) amino acids exhibiting significant identity with Escherichia coli (Ec) Pth. Together with the products of two previously unidentified ORFs from Bacillus subtilis and Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and the recently recognized Haemophilus influenzae and Mycoplasma genitalium pth genes, these seven putative polypeptides and the Ec Pth form a group of homologous basic proteins spanning eubacteria and eukaryota which can be defined by at least three conserved regions. Previously known Ec pth mutations were located in highly conserved residues.	1996 Feb	De La Vega, F M; De La Vega, FM; De La Vega; Galindo, J M; Galindo, JM; Galindo; Old, I G; Old, IG; Old; Guarneros, G; Guarneros, G; Guarneros	Gene
9122371	Escherichia coli as a model system with which to study cell differentiation.	This article concerns the elaboration of epigenetic models for differentiation. I discuss how results and conclusions arising from studies of prokaryotes were extrapolated to explain differentiation during metazoan development. In this respect, I focus on the presentation of a multi-stable biochemical model by Delbrück in 1949, and on a series of works dealing with enzyme adaptation in Escherichia coli that culminated in Jacob and Monod's operon model. These influential contributions are discussed in the context of debates on nuclear versus cytoplasmic heredity, on the regulation of gene expression, as well as on the mechanisms at the basis of cell differentiation.	1996	Thieffry, D; Thieffry, D; Thieffry	Hist Philos Life Sci
8534846	Induction of nodule primordia on Phaseolus and Acacia by lipo-chitin oligosaccharide nodulation signals from broad-host-range Rhizobium strain GRH2.	Rhizobium wild-type strain GRH2 was originally isolated from the tree, Acacia cyanophylla, and has a broad host-range which includes herbaceous legumes, such as Phaseolus and Trifolium species. Here we show that strains of Rhizobium sp. GRH2, into which heterologous nodD alleles have been introduced, produce a large diversity of both sulphated and non-sulphated lipo-chitin oligosaccharides (LCOs). Most of the molecular species contain an N-methyl group on the reducing-terminal N-acetyl-glucosamine. The LCOs vary in the nature of the fatty acyl chain and in the length of the chitin backbone. The majority of the LCOs have an oligosaccharide chain length of five GlcNAc residues, but a few are oligomers having six GlcNAc units. LCOs purified from GRH2 are able to induce root hair formation and deformation on Acacia cyanophylla and A. melanoxylon plants. We show that an N-vaccenoyl-chitopentaose bearing an N-methyl group is able to induce nodule primordia on Phaseolus vulgaris, A. cyanophylla, and A. melanoxylon, indicating that for these plants an N-methyl modification is sufficient for nodule primordia induction.	1995 Nov	López-Lara, I M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; van der Drift, K M; van der Drift, KM; van der Drift; van Brussel, A A; van Brussel, AA; van Brussel; Haverkamp, J; Haverkamp, J; Haverkamp; Lugtenberg, B J; Lugtenberg, BJ; Lugtenberg; Thomas-Oates, J E; Thomas-Oates, JE; Thomas-Oates; Spaink, H P; Spaink, HP; Spaink	Plant Mol Biol
8534845	Isolation, chemical structures and biological activity of the lipo-chitin oligosaccharide nodulation signals from Rhizobium etli.	Rhizobium etli is a microsymbiont of plants of the genus Phaseolus. Using mass spectrometry we have identified the lipo-chitin oligosaccharides (LCOs) that are produced by R. etli strain CE3. They are N-acetylglucosamine pentasaccharides of which the non-reducing residue is N-methylated and N-acylated with cis-vaccenic acid (C18:1) or stearic acid (C18:0) and carries a carbamoyl group at C4. The reducing residue is substituted at the C6 position with O-acetylfucose. Analysis of their biological activity on the host plant Phaseolus vulgaris shows that these LCOs can elicit the formation of nodule primordia which develop to the stage where vascular bundles are formed. The formation of complete nodule structures, including an organized vascular tissue, is never observed. Considering the very close resemblance of the R. etli LCO structures to those of R. loti (I. M. López-Lara, J. D. J. van den Berg, J. E. Thomas Oates, J. Glushka, B. J. J. Lugtenberg, H. P. Spaink, Mol Microbiol 15: 627-638, 1995) we tested the ability of R. etli strains to nodulate various Lotus species and of R. loti to nodulate P. vulgaris. The results show that R. etli is indeed able to nodulate Lotus plants. However, several Lotus species are only nodulated when an additional flavonoid independent transcription activator (FITA) nodD gene is provided. Phaseolus plants can also be nodulated by R. loti bacteria, but only when the bacteria contain a FITA nodD gene. Apparently, the type of nod gene inducers secreted by the plants is the major basis for the separation of Phaseolus and Lotus into different cross inoculation groups.	1995 Nov	Cárdenas, L; Cárdenas, L; Cárdenas; Domínguez, J; Domínguez, J; Domínguez; Quinto, C; Quinto, C; Quinto; López-Lara, I M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Lugtenberg, B J; Lugtenberg, BJ; Lugtenberg; Spaink, H P; Spaink, HP; Spaink; Rademaker, G J; Rademaker, GJ; Rademaker; Haverkamp, J; Haverkamp, J; Haverkamp; Thomas-Oates, J E; Thomas-Oates, JE; Thomas-Oates	Plant Mol Biol
8526514	Rhizobium tropici chromosomal citrate synthase gene.	Two genes encoding citrate synthase, a key enzyme in the Krebs cycle, have been found in Rhizobium tropici. One of them is in the bacterial chromosome, while the other is in the symbiotic plasmid. We sequenced the chromosomal gene and found that it is very similar to the previously reported plasmidic gene sequence in its structural region but not in its regulatory region. The chromosomal gene is able to complement an Escherichia coli citrate synthase mutant. In R. tropici, a mutant in the chromosomal citrate synthase gene has a diminished citrate synthase activity (in free-living bacteria), a diminished nodulation capacity, and forms nitrogen-fixing nodules. In contrast, the citrate synthase double mutant forms ineffective nodules devoid of bacteroids and forms less nodules than the single chromosomal mutant. It is inferred that both genes are functional and required during the nodulation process in R. tropici.	1995 Nov	Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Pardo, M A; Pardo, MA; Pardo; Segovia, L; Segovia, L; Segovia; Miranda, J; Miranda, J; Miranda; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Appl Environ Microbiol
16535102	Genetic Structure of Acetobacter diazotrophicus Populations and Identification of a New Genetically Distant Group.	A total of 55 isolates of Acetobacter diazotrophicus recovered from diverse sucrose-rich host plants and from mealybugs associated with sugarcane plants were characterized by the electrophoretic mobilities of 12 metabolic enzymes. We identified seven different electrophoretic types (ETs), six of which are closely related within a genetic distance of 0.195 and exhibit high DNA-DNA homology. The seventh ET was largely divergent, separated at a genetic distance of 0.53, and had only 54% DNA homology to the reference strain. Strains corresponding to ET 7 could represent a distinct nitrogen-fixing species of the genus Acetobacter. More genetic diversity was found in isolates from Brazil than in those from Mexico, probably due to the very different crop nitrogen fertilization levels used.	1995 Aug	Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Fuentes-Ramirez, L E; Fuentes-Ramirez, LE; Fuentes-Ramirez; Reis, V M; Reis, VM; Reis; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero	Appl Environ Microbiol
7635216	Rhizobium tropici nodulation factor sulfation is limited by the quantity of activated form of sulfate.	Rhizobium tropici is a broad host-range symbiont of Phaseolus vulgaris. This bacterium produces a mixture of sulfated and non-sulfated N-methylated pentameric nodulation (Nod) factors. To understand the genetic bases of the partial sulfation of R. tropici Nod factors, which might be involved in the broad host-range of this species, we introduced in R. tropici CFN299 the recombinant plasmid pGMI515 carrying a set of nodulation (nod) genes of R. meliloti, including those involved in the sulfation of R. meliloti Nod factors. The CFN299 (pGMI515) transconjugant produced only sulfated Nod factors, but approximately half of them were no more N-methylated. Mutations in R. meliloti nodH gene did not decrease the Nod factor sulfation whereas inactivation of the nodPQ genes restored the production of a mixture of sulfated and non-sulfated molecules. These results suggest that the limiting step in R. tropici Nod factor sulfation is the production of activated sulfate donors. Mutations in the R. meliloti nodFEG and nodH genes did not change the N-methylation pattern, whereas mutations in nodPQ increased the degree of N-methylation, suggesting a metabolic link between sulfation and methylation of R. tropici Nod factors.	1995 Jul	Poupot, R; Poupot, R; Poupot; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Maillet, F; Maillet, F; Maillet; Prome, J C; Prome, JC; Prome	FEBS Lett
7618891	Phylogenetic relationships and host range of Rhizobium spp. that nodulate Phaseolus vulgaris L.	We determined the nucleotide sequences of 16S rRNA gene segments from five Rhizobium strains that have been isolated from tropical legume species. All share the capacity to nodulate Phaseolus vulgaris L., the common bean. Phylogenetic analysis confirmed that these strains are of two different chromosomal lineages. We defined the host ranges of two strains of Rhizobium etli and three strains of R. tropici, comparing them with those of the two most divergently related new strains. Twenty-two of the 43 tested legume species were nodulated by three or more of these strains. All seven strains have broad host ranges that include woody species such as Albizia lebbeck, Gliricidia maculata, and Leucaena leucocephala.	1995 Jul	Hernandez-Lucas, I; Hernandez-Lucas, I; Hernandez-Lucas; Segovia, L; Segovia, L; Segovia; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Pueppke, S G; Pueppke, SG; Pueppke	Appl Environ Microbiol
24194309	Root exuded nod-gene inducing signals limit the nodulation capacity of different alfalfa varieties with Rhizobium meliloti.	Different nodulation capacities were found among nine different varieties of alfalfa, cultivated in the Central region of Mexico, by Rhizobium meliloti 2011. A correlation between nodulation capacity and foliar dry weight was observed, which points to a genotype dependance on these parameters. A correlation between the nodulation capacity and the R. meliloti nod-gene inducing activity of the root exudates from the different varieties, as measured by β-galactosidase induction in a test system consisting of a R. meliloti nodC-lacZ strain incubated with each root exudate, was established. When the root exudate from the best nodulating variety was added to the four poorest nodulating varieties, an increase in nodule formation was observed. We conclude that root exuded nod-gene inducing signals are a symbiotically-limiting component in natural populations of the poorest nodulating varieties of alfalfa. 	1995 Jul	Hernández, G; Hernández, G; Hernández; Ramírez, M; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Suárez, R; Suárez, R; Suárez; Fuentes, S I; Fuentes, SI; Fuentes	Plant Cell Rep
8589413	The enhancement of ammonium assimilation in Rhizobium etli prevents nodulation of Phaseolus vulgaris.	The modification of the ammonium assimilation pathway of Rhizobium etli (GS-GOGAT) by adding an additional ammonium assimilation enzyme, GDH, strongly affects its symbiotic interaction with beans. The plasmid pAM1a, based in the stable vector pTR101 (M. Weinstein, R. C. Roberts, and D. R. Helsinki, J. Bacteriol. 174,7486-7489, 1992), containing the Escherichia coli gdhA gene flanked by two transcription-translation terminators was constructed. The expression of GDH in both, the wild type (CFN42/pAM1a) and a ntrC- mutant (CFN2012/pAM1a) R. etli strains, gave a similar metabolic effect, i.e., high GDH and reduced GOGAT activities, and an increased synthesis and excretion of several amino acids. The total inhibition of bean nodulation was observed when the minimum optimal inoculum of R. etli CFN42/pAM1a was used; however, an effective symbiosis occurred with the CFN2012/pAM1a mutant strain. While a total inhibition of the induction of the nodA gene by bean root exudate or by naringenin was observed in the CFN42/pAM1a strain, at 10 mM ammonium, the CFN2012/pAM1a showed an optimal nodA gene induction. A correlation between nodA gene induction, Nod factor production, and nodulation was observed. We conclude that in R. etli, there is a down-regulation of nod gene expression and nodulation when a high internal nitrogen content is built up by the presence of a functional GDH and that NtrC is involved in such regulation. An instability of the plasmid harboring the gdhA gene was observed during symbiosis, indicating a strong selection against cells containing this plasmid.	1995 Jul-Aug	Mendoza, A; Mendoza, A; Mendoza; Leija, A; Leija, A; Leija; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Hernández, G; Hernández, G; Hernández; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
7768801	Fermentative and aerobic metabolism in Rhizobium etli.	Strains of Rhizobium etli, Rhizobium meliloti, and Rhizobium tropici decreased their capacity to grow after successive subcultures in minimal medium, with a pattern characteristic for each species. During the growth of R. etli CE 3 in minimal medium (MM), a fermentation-like response was apparent: the O2 content was reduced and, simultaneously, organic acids and amino acids were excreted and poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate (PHB) was accumulated. Some of the organic acids excreted into the medium were tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle intermediates, and, concomitantly, the activities of several TCA cycle and auxiliary enzymes decreased substantially or became undetectable. Optimal and sustained growth and a low PHB content were found in R. etli CE 3 when it was grown in MM inoculated at a low cell density with O2 maintained at 20% or with the addition of supplements that have an effect on the supply of substrates for the TCA cycle. In the presence of supplements such as biotin or thiamine, no amino acids were excreted and the organic acids already excreted into the medium were later reutilized. Levels of enzyme activities in cells from supplemented cultures indicated that carbon flux through the TCA cycle was maintained, which did not happen in MM. It is proposed that the fermentative state in Rhizobium species is triggered by a cell density signal that results in the regulation of some of the enzymes responsible for the flux of carbon through the TCA cycle and that this in turn determines how much carbon is available for the synthesis and accumulation of PHB. The fermentative state of free-living Rhizobium species may be closely related to the metabolism that these bacteria express during symbiosis.	1995 Jun	Encarnación, S; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Dunn, M; Dunn, M; Dunn; Willms, K; Willms, K; Willms; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
16535054	Host-Controlled Restriction of Nodulation by Bradyrhizobium japonicum Strains in Serogroup 110.	We previously reported the identification of a soybean plant introduction (PI) genotype, PI 417566, which restricts nodulation by Bradyrhizobium japonicum MN1-1c (USDA 430), strains in serogroup 129, and USDA 110 (P. B. Cregan, H. H. Keyser, and M. J. Sadowsky, Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 55:2532-2536, 1989, and Crop Sci. 29:307-312, 1989). In this study, we further characterized nodulation restriction by PI 417566. Twenty-four serogroup 110 isolates were tested for restricted nodulation on PI 417566. Of the 24 strains examined, 62.5% were restricted in nodulation by the PI genotype. The remainder of the serogroup 110 strains tested (37.5%), however, formed significant numbers of nodules on PI 417566, suggesting that host-controlled restriction of nodulation by members of serogroup 110 is strain dependent. Analysis of allelic variation at seven enzyme-encoding loci by multilocus enzyme electrophoresis indicated that the serogroup 110 isolates can be divided into two major groups. The majority of serogroup 110 isolates which nodulated PI 417566 belonged to the same multilocus enzyme electrophoresis group. B. japonicum USDA 110 and USDA 123 were used as coinoculants in competition-for-nodulation studies using PI 417566. Over 98% of the nodules formed on PI 417566 contained USDA 123, whereas less than 2% contained USDA 110. We also report the isolation of a Tn5 mutant of USDA 110 which has overcome nodulation restriction conditioned by PI 417566. This mutant, D4.2-5, contained a single Tn5 insertion and nodulated PI 417566 to an extent equal to that seen with the unrestricted strain USDA 123. The host range of D4.2-5 on soybean plants and other legumes was unchanged relative to that of USDA 110, except that the mutant nodulated Glycine max cv. Hill more efficiently. While strain USDA 110 has the ability to block nodulation by D4.2-5 on PI 417566, the nodulation-blocking phenomenon was not seen unless strain USDA 110 was inoculated at a 100-fold greater concentration than the mutant strain.	1995 Jun	Lohrke, S M; Lohrke, SM; Lohrke; Orf, J H; Orf, JH; Orf; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Sadowsky, M J; Sadowsky, MJ; Sadowsky	Appl Environ Microbiol
7786037	Redox imbalance at the start of each morphogenetic step of Neurospora crassa conidiation.	The conidiation process of Neurospora crassa is characterized by three morphogenetic steps: hyphal adhesion, aerial hyphal formation, and production of conidia. Total protein oxidation and specific enzyme oxidation coincided with an increased oxygen-dependent chemiluminescence and indicated the occurrence of a hyperoxidant state at the onset of all three morphogenetic steps. Oxidation of NAD(P)H and excretion of glutathione disulfide was detected at the start of hyphae adhesion. Here we show that NAD(P)H and glutathione redox imbalance also occurred at the beginning of aerial hyphal growth and just before formation of conidia in the isolated cell structures. An increased loss and oxidation of NAD(P)(H) and glutathione were detected with each morphogenetic transition. These results give further support to our proposal that a hyperoxidant state develops at the start of each of the three morphogenetic processes during N. crassa conidiation.	1995 Jun	Toledo, I; Toledo, I; Toledo; Rangel, P; Rangel, P; Rangel; Hansberg, W; Hansberg, W; Hansberg	Arch Biochem Biophys
7896698	Overlapping promoters for two different RNA polymerase holoenzymes control Bradyrhizobium japonicum nifA expression.	The Bradyrhizobium japonicum NifA protein, the central regulator for nitrogen fixation gene expression, is encoded in the fixRnifA operon. This operon is activated during free-living anaerobic growth and in the symbiotic root nodule bacteroid state. In addition, it is expressed in aerobic conditions, albeit at a low level. Here, we report that this pattern of expression is due to the presence of two overlapping promoters: fixRp1, which is of the -24/-12 class recognized by the RNA polymerase sigma 54, and fixRp2, which shares homology with the -35 and -10 regions found in other putative B. japonicum housekeeping promoters. Primer extension analyses showed that fixRp1 directed the synthesis of a transcript, P1, that starts 12 nucleotides downstream of the -12 region. In addition to sigma 54, P1 was dependent on NifA and low oxygen tension. Transcripts originating from fixRp2 started at two sites: one coincided with P1, while the most abundant, P2 initiated just two nucleotides further downstream of P1. Expression from fixRp2 was dependent on the upstream -68 promoter region, a region known to bind a putative activator protein, but it was independent of sigma 54 and NifA. This promoter was expressed in aerobic and anaerobic conditions but was not expressed in 30-day-old bacteroids. Mutations in the conserved 12 region for the sigma 54 promoter did not show any transcript, because these mutations also disrupted the overlapping -10 region of the fixRp2 promoter. Conversely, mutations at the -24 region only affected the sigma 54-dependent P1 transcript, having no effect on the expression of P2. In the absence of omega(54), anaerobic expression from the fixRp(2) promoter was enhanced threefold, suggesting that in the wild-type strain, the two RNA polymerase holoenzymes must compete for binding to the same promoter region.	1995 Apr	Barrios, H; Barrios, H; Barrios; Fischer, H M; Fischer, HM; Fischer; Hennecke, H; Hennecke, H; Hennecke; Morett, E; Morett, E; Morett	J Bacteriol
7890737	Wild type Rhizobium etli, a bean symbiont, produces acetyl-fucosylated, N-methylated, and carbamoylated nodulation factors.	Phaseolus vulgaris (common bean) can be nodulated by different Rhizobium species. A new species has been recently proposed: Rhizobium etli. Following transcriptional activation of the bacterial nodulation genes using naringenin or bean seed exudate, we have isolated, purified, and characterized R. etli extracellular nodulation factors. They are chitopentameric compounds that are N-methyl-N-vaccenoylated at their non-reducing end. At position 6 of the reducing N-acetyl-D-glucosamine, they are 4-O-acetyl-L-fucosylated. Minor compounds bear a carbamate group on the terminal non-reducing saccharidic residue.	1995 Mar	Poupot, R; Poupot, R; Poupot; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Gautier, N; Gautier, N; Gautier; Promé, J C; Promé, JC; Promé	J Biol Chem
7711895	Surface polysaccharide mutants of Rhizobium sp. (Acacia) strain GRH2: major requirement of lipopolysaccharide for successful invasion of Acacia nodules and host range determination.	Two transposon Tn5-induced mutants of wild-type broad-host-range Rhizobium sp. GRH2 were isolated and found to harbour different alterations in surface polysaccharides. These mutants, designated GRH2-14 and GRH2-50, induced a few, empty nodules on Acacia and lost the ability to nodulate most host herbaceous legumes. Whereas mutant GRH2-14 produces an acidic exopolysaccharide (EPS) similar to the wild-type, the acidic EPS of mutant GRH2-50 lacks galactose and the pyruvyl and 3-hydroxybutyryl substituents attached to this sugar moiety. In addition, both mutants GRH2-50 and GRH2-14 were altered in smooth lipopolysaccharides (LPS). DNA sequence analyses of the corresponding Tn5 insertions revealed that strain GRH2-50 was mutated in a DNA locus homologous to galE, and in vitro enzyme assays indicated that the UDPglucose 4-epimerase (GalE) activity was missing in this mutant strain. DNA hybridization studies showed that the GRH2-50 mutant DNA has homologous sequences within the different biovars of Rhizobium leguminosarum. However, no DNA homology to GRH2-14 altered DNA was found in those rhizobial strains, indicating that it represents a new chromosomal lps locus in Rhizobium sp. (Acacia) involved in symbiotic development.	1995 Mar	López-Lara, I M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Orgambide, G; Orgambide, G; Orgambide; Dazzo, F B; Dazzo, FB; Dazzo; Olivares, J; Olivares, J; Olivares; Toro, N; Toro, N; Toro	Microbiology (Reading)
7860608	Discrete amplifiable regions (amplicons) in the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium etli CFN42.	Frequent tandem amplification of defined regions of the genome, called amplicons, is a common characteristic in the genomes of some Rhizobium species, such as Rhizobium etli. In order to map these zones in a model Rhizobium replicon, we undertook an analysis of the plasticity patterns fostered by amplicons in the pSym (390 kb) of R. etli CFN42. Data presented in this article indicate the presence of four amplicons in pSym, used for the generation of tandem amplifications and deletions. The amplicons are large, ranging from 90 to 175 kb, and they are overlapping. Each amplicon is usually flanked by specific reiterated sequences. Formation of amplifications and deletions requires an active recA gene. All the amplicons detected are concentrated in a zone of roughly one-third of pSym, covering most of the symbiotic genes detected in this plasmid. No amplicons were detected in the remaining two-thirds of pSym. These data support the idea that most of the known symbiotic genes in this plasmid are located in a genomic region that is prone to the formation of frequent tandem amplification.	1995 Feb	Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Martínez-Salazar, J; Martínez-Salazar, J; Martínez-Salazar; Girard, L; Girard, L; Girard; Brom, S; Brom, S; Brom; Dávilla, G; Dávilla, G; Dávilla; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios; Flores, M; Flores, M; Flores; Rodríguez, C; Rodríguez, C; Rodríguez	J Bacteriol
7783635	Structural identification of the lipo-chitin oligosaccharide nodulation signals of Rhizobium loti.	Rhizobium loti is a fast-growing Rhizobium species that has been described as a microsymbiont of plants of the genus Lotus. Nodulation studies show that Lotus plants are nodulated by R. loti, but not by most other Rhizobium strains, indicating that R. loti produces specific lipo-chitin oligosaccharides (LCOs) which are necessary for the nodulation of Lotus plants. The LCOs produced by five different Rhizobium loti strains have been purified and were shown to be N-acetylglucosamine pentasaccharides of which the non-reducing residue is N-methylated and N-acylated with cis-vaccenic acid (C18:1) or stearic acid (C18:O) and carries a carbamoyl group. In one R. loti strain, NZP2037, an additional carbamoyl group is present on the non-reducing terminal residue. The major class of LCO molecules is substituted on the reducing terminal residue with 4-O-acetylfucose. Addition of LCOs to the roots of Lotus plants results in abundant distortion, swelling and branching of the root hairs, whereas spot inoculation leads to the formation of nodule primordia.	1995 Feb	López-Lara, I M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; van den Berg, J D; van den Berg, JD; van den Berg; Thomas-Oates, J E; Thomas-Oates, JE; Thomas-Oates; Glushka, J; Glushka, J; Glushka; Lugtenberg, B J; Lugtenberg, BJ; Lugtenberg; Spaink, H P; Spaink, HP; Spaink	Mol Microbiol
7952190	Enzyme inactivation related to a hyperoxidant state during conidiation of Neurospora crassa.	The conidiation process of Neurospora crassa is characterized by three morphogenetic steps: hyphal adhesion, aerial hyphal formation, and production of conidia. Previous data indicated the occurrence of a hyperoxidant state at the onset of all three morphogenetic steps. Because glutamine synthetase (GS) and the biosynthetic glutamate dehydrogenase [GDH(NADP)] enzymes are susceptible to inactivation by reactive oxygen species, we followed these enzyme activities during conidiation and under different physiological conditions and related them to the hyperoxidant states and morphogenesis. Loss of GS activity occurred prior to all three morphogenetic steps, coinciding with an increase in total protein oxidation. Oxidized GS polypeptides were detected during hyphal adhesion. Loss of GDH(NADP) activity also occurred during hyphal adhesion and before aerial hyphal formation; the enzyme polypeptide and activity decreased in the adhered hyphae to low values and no GDH(NADP) was detected in aerial hyphae. The catabolic GDH [GDH(NAD)] behaved in an opposite manner, increasing its activity during hyphal adhesion and aerial hyphae development. These results are discussed with regard to cell differentiation and the conidiation process in N. crassa.	1994 Sep	Toledo, I; Toledo, I; Toledo; Aguirre, J; Aguirre, J; Aguirre; Hansberg, W; Hansberg, W; Hansberg	Microbiology (Reading)
16349319	Carbon Metabolism Enzymes of Rhizobium tropici Cultures and Bacteroids.	We determined the activities of selected enzymes involved in carbon metabolism in free-living cells of Rhizobium tropici CFN299 grown in minimal medium with different carbon sources and in bacteroids of the same strain. The set of enzymatic activities in sucrose-grown cells suggests that the pentose phosphate pathway, with the participation of the Entner-Doudoroff pathway, is probably the primary route for sugar catabolism. In glutamate- and malate-grown cells, high activities of the gluconeogenic enzymes (phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase, fructose-6-phosphate aldolase, and fructose bisphosphatase) were detected. In bacteroids, isolated in Percoll gradients, the levels of activity for many of the enzymes measured were similar to those of malate-grown cells, except that higher activities of glucokinase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, and NAD-dependent phosphogluconate dehydrogenase were detected. Phosphoglucomutase and UDP glucose pyrophosphorylase showed high and constant levels under all growth conditions and in bacteroids.	1994 Jul	Romanov, V I; Romanov, VI; Romanov; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Appl Environ Microbiol
16349254	Limited Genetic Diversity in the Endophytic Sugarcane Bacterium Acetobacter diazotrophicus.	Acetobacter diazotrophicus isolates that originated from different sugarcane cultivars growing in diverse geographic regions of Mexico and Brazil were shown to have limited genetic diversity. Measurements of polymorphism in the electrophoretic mobilities of metabolic enzymes revealed that the mean genetic diversity per enzyme locus (among the four electrophoretic types distinguished) was 0.064. The results of the genetic analysis indicate that the genetic structure of A. diazotrophicus is clonal, with one largely predominant clone. Plasmids were present in 20 of 24 isolates, and the molecular sizes of the plasmids ranged from 2.0 to 170 kb. Two plasmids (a 20- to 24-kb plasmid detected in all 20 plasmid-containing isolates and a 170-kb plasmid observed in 14 isolates) were highly conserved among the isolates examined. Regardless of the presence of plasmids, all of the isolates shared a common pattern of nif structural gene organization on the chromosome.	1994 May	Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero	Appl Environ Microbiol
7873778	Identification of a novel Rhizobium meliloti nodulation efficiency nfe gene homolog of Agrobacterium ornithine cyclodeaminase.	The nfe genes located on the large plasmid pRmeGR4b are involved in the nodulation efficiency and competitiveness of Rhizobium meliloti GR4 on alfalfa roots. One hundred twenty-eight base-pairs downstream of nfe2 gene we found an open reading frame designated ORFC, 970 bp long and potentially coding for a 320 amino acid long protein. The amino acid sequence of the putatively encoded ORFC product shows similarity with ornithine cyclodeaminase (OCD) of Agrobacterium tumefaciens an unusual enzyme that converts ornithine into proline. The gene product of ORFC was identified as a 37-kDa protein by in vitro-coupled transcription-translation and in vivo by the T7 RNA polymerase/promoter system. DNA hybridization studies showed that strain GR4 carries a single copy of the ocd-like gene. No homologous sequences to GR4 ORFC DNA were found in other R. meliloti strains or Rhizobium spp. assayed. Furthermore, a GR4 derivative mutant obtained by plasmid disruption of ORFC showed an impaired nodulation efficiency as compared to that of the wild-type strain GR4. Thus, the former locus should be considered a novel nfe gene. We propose to rename the nfe genes, nfe1, 2 and ORFC as nfeA, B, and D, respectively.	1994 Nov-Dec	Soto, M J; Soto, MJ; Soto; Zorzano, A; Zorzano, A; Zorzano; García-Rodriguez, F M; García-Rodriguez, FM; García-Rodriguez; Mercado-Blanco, J; Mercado-Blanco, J; Mercado-Blanco; López-Lara, I M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Olivares, J; Olivares, J; Olivares; Toro, N; Toro, N; Toro	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
8170393	Nodulating ability of Rhizobium tropici is conditioned by a plasmid-encoded citrate synthase.	Rhizobium species elicit the formation of nitrogen-fixing root nodules through a complex interaction between bacteria and plants. Various bacterial genes involved in the nodulation and nitrogen-fixation processes have been described and most have been localized on the symbiotic plasmids (pSym). We have found a gene encoding citrate synthase on the pSym plasmid of Rhizobium tropici, a species that forms nitrogen-fixing nodules on the roots of beans (Phaseolus vulgaris) and trees (Leucaena spp.). Citrate synthase is a key metabolic enzyme that incorporates carbon into the tricarboxylic acid cycle by catalysing the condensation of acetyl-CoA and oxaloacetic acid to form citrate. R. tropici pcsA (the plasmid citrate synthase gene) is closely related to the corresponding genes of Proteobacteria. pcsA inactivation by a Tn5-mob insertion causes the bacteria to form fewer nodules (30-50% of the original strain) and to have a decreased citrate synthase activity in minimal medium with sucrose. A clone carrying the pcsA gene complemented all the phenotypic alterations of the pcsA mutant, and conferred Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. phaseoli (which naturally lacks a plasmid citrate synthase gene) a higher nodulation and growth capacity in correlation with a higher citrate synthase activity. We have also found that pcsA gene expression is sensitive to iron availability, suggesting a possible role of pcsA in iron uptake.	1994 Jan	Pardo, M A; Pardo, MA; Pardo; Lagunez, J; Lagunez, J; Lagunez; Miranda, J; Miranda, J; Miranda; Martínez, E; Martínez, E; Martínez	Mol Microbiol
8399187	Nodulation factors from Rhizobium tropici are sulfated or nonsulfated chitopentasaccharides containing an N-methyl-N-acylglucosaminyl terminus.	Phaseolus vulgaris (common bean) can be nodulated by several Rhizobium species. Among them, Rhizobium tropici has a relatively broad host range, as it is able to infect beans, Leucaena trees, and several other legumes. This work describes the isolation and the characterization of extracellular factors (Nod factors) whose production from R. tropici was triggered by the transcriptional activation of its nod genes. These factors consist of a chitopentaose backbone in which the N-acetyl group of the nonreducing end glucosaminyl residue is replaced by an N-methyl-N-vaccenoyl one. Some of these molecules are sulfated on position 6 of the terminal reducing glucosamine.	1993 Oct	Poupot, R; Poupot, R; Poupot; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Promé, J C; Promé, JC; Promé	Biochemistry
7907211	Regulation of ammonium ion assimilation enzymes in Neurospora crassa nit-2 and ms-5 mutant strains.	In Neurospora crassa the nit-2 and nmr-1 (ms-5) loci represent the major control genes encoding regulatory proteins that allow the coordinated expression of various systems involved with the utilization of a secondary nitrogen source. In this paper we examined the effect of the nit-2 and ms-5 (nmr-1 locus) mutations on the regulation of the ammonium assimilation enzymes, glutamine synthetase and glutamate dehydrogenase, which are regulated by the products of these genes; however, glutamate synthase is not so regulated. Glutamine synthetase and glutamate dehydrogenase levels are also regulated by the amino nitrogen content. We present evidence that the ms-5 and glnr strains, which behave very similarly in their resistance to glutamine repression, are different and map in different loci.	1993 Oct	Calderón, J; Calderón, J; Calderón; Martínez, L M; Martínez, LM; Martínez	Biochem Genet
8246512	The elements for a classification of units of genetic information with a combinatorial component.	An integrative approach to the study of the regulation of gene expression has been undertaken here. The main goal of this approach is to make explicit the common rules that govern the relative location of regulatory sites within operons and other units of genetic information (UGIs). A classification that emphasizes the regulatory properties of UGIs can be achieved by partitioning UGIs into short sequences with defined properties. Such a classification scheme can be precisely defined as a Grammar with a component of combinatorial (rewriting) rules, and a dictionary component. Sequences have then to be grouped into classes such that any sequence of the same class can mutually substitute and produce novel regulatable UGIs. It is shown here that individual nucleotides cannot define such classes--they are far from equivalent to phonemes. Neither pairs, triplets or any short sequence with a defined number of nucleotides can define productive substitutions. Defined sequences like promoter, operator and activator binding sites are the smallest elements of combinatorial rules within the defined range of transcription initiation of sigma 70 Escherichia coli promoters.	1993 Aug	Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	J Theor Biol
8506337	Gene amplification in Rhizobium: identification and in vivo cloning of discrete amplifiable DNA regions (amplicons) from Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar phaseoli.	A genetic element that allows the positive selection of different genomic rearrangements was used to analyze DNA amplification in Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar phaseoli. Discrete amplifiable DNA regions (amplicons) were detected in different regions of the genome of the model strain CFN42, including the chromosome and several large plasmids. Amplicons were mobilized into Escherichia coli using a genetic approach that involves the introduction of an origin of replication active in E. coli and an origin of conjugal transfer into the amplifiable DNA regions of the Rhizobium genome. The strategy can be a valuable tool for studies on genome organization and function. We propose that amplicons define a structural characteristic of the genome that may play an important biological role.	1993 Jun	Flores, M; Flores, M; Flores; Brom, S; Brom, S; Brom; Stepkowski, T; Stepkowski, T; Stepkowski; Girard, M L; Girard, ML; Girard; Dávila, G; Dávila, G; Dávila; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
8491702	Characterization and symbiotic importance of acidic extracellular polysaccharides of Rhizobium sp. strain GRH2 isolated from acacia nodules.	Rhizobium sp. wild-type strain GRH2 was originally isolated from root nodules of the leguminous tree Acacia cyanophylla and has a broad host range which includes herbaceous legumes, e.g., Trifolium spp. We examined the extracellular exopolysaccharides (EPSs) produced by strain GRH2 and found three independent glycosidic structures: a high-molecular-weight acidic heteropolysaccharide which is very similar to the acidic EPS produced by Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar trifolii ANU843, a low-molecular-weight native heterooligosaccharide resembling a dimer of the repeat unit of the high-molecular-weight EPS, and low-molecular-weight neutral beta (1,2)-glucans. A Tn5 insertion mutant derivative of GRH2 (exo-57) that fails to form acidic heteropolysaccharides was obtained. This Exo- mutant formed nitrogen-fixing nodules on Acacia plants but infected a smaller proportion of cells in the central zone of the nodules than did wild-type GRH2. In addition, the exo-57 mutant failed to nodulate several herbaceous legume hosts that are nodulated by wild-type strain GRH2.	1993 May	Lopez-Lara, I M; Lopez-Lara, IM; Lopez-Lara; Orgambide, G; Orgambide, G; Orgambide; Dazzo, F B; Dazzo, FB; Dazzo; Olivares, J; Olivares, J; Olivares; Toro, N; Toro, N; Toro	J Bacteriol
8494746	Reclassification of American Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar phaseoli type I strains as Rhizobium etli sp. nov.	A new Rhizobium species that nodulates Phaseolus vulgaris L. is proposed on the basis of a sequence analysis of 16S ribosomal DNA. This taxon, Rhizobium etli sp. nov., was previously named Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar phaseoli (type I strains) and is characterized by the capacity to establish an effective symbiosis with bean plants, the reiteration of the nitrogenase structural genes, the organization of the common nodulation genes into two separate transcriptional units bearing nodA and nodBC, the presence of the polysaccharide inhibition gene, psi, and the 16S ribosomal DNA sequence. An analysis of the sequence of a fragment of the 16S rRNA gene shows that this gene is quite different from the gene of R. leguminosarum. In addition, all R. etli strains have identical sequences. We describe these analyses and discuss additional evidence supporting our proposal.	1993 Apr	Segovia, L; Segovia, L; Segovia; Young, J P; Young, JP; Young; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Int J Syst Bacteriol
8374070	A linguistic representation of the regulation of transcription initiation. I. An ordered array of complex symbols with distinctive features.	The inadequacy of context-free grammars in the description of regulatory information contained in DNA gave the formal justification for a linguistic approach to the study of gene regulation. Based on that result, we have initiated a linguistic formalization of the regulatory arrays of 107 sigma 70 E. coli promoters. The complete sequences of promoter (Pr), operator (Op) and activator binding sites (I) have previously been identified as the smallest elements, or categories, for a combinatorial analysis of the range of transcription initiation of sigma 70 promoters. These categories are conceptually equivalent to phonemes of natural language. Several features associated with these categories are required in a complete description of regulatory arrays of promoters. We have to select the best way to describe the properties that are pertinent for the description of such regulatory regions. In this paper we define distinctive features of regulatory regions based on the following criteria: identification of subclasses of substitutable elements, simplicity, selection of the most directly related information, and distinction of one array among the whole set of promoters. Alternative ways to represent distances in between regulatory sites are discussed, permitting, together with a principle of precedence, the identification of an ordered set of complex symbols as a unique representation for a promoter and its associated regulatory sites. In the accompanying paper additional distinctive features of promoters and regulatory sites are identified.	1993	Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Biosystems
8374063	A linguistic representation of the regulation of transcription initiation. II. Distinctive features of sigma 70 promoters and their regulatory binding sites.	The goal of this paper and the accompanying one is to achieve a linguistic representation of a set of sigma 70 promoters. Such a description is formed by an ordered concatenated array of complex symbols identified by their categorical property, i.e. promoter, operator, activator binding site, etc. Each of these symbols may contain several properties associated with their respective classes of 'molecular words'. The main problem in attaining such a description is to define which properties are going to be represented, and how. In the accompanying paper the criteria on which the selection of alternative descriptions is based were discussed. The properties of promoters and regulatory sites are discussed here, and their corresponding distinctive features are selected following such criteria. Thus, information that is not directly relevant and that can overspecify the description has been excluded, since it does not seem to contribute to identifying classes of substitutable elements. Other properties, such as strength of promoters, position of regulatory sites, different types of specificities of regulatory proteins, affinity of their binding sites, etc., are also discussed. As a result of this analysis, a complete representation with distinctive features of the set of sigma 70 promoters is attainable.	1993	Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Biosystems
1409648	Grammatical model of the regulation of gene expression.	Based on a formal proof that justifies the search for generative grammars in the study of gene regulation, a linguistic formalization of an exhaustive data base of Escherichia coli sigma 70 promoters and their regulatory binding sites has been initiated. The grammar presented here generates all the arrays of the collection plus those that are predicted as consistent with the principles of regulation of sigma 70 promoters. "Systems of regulation," sets of regulatory sites that collaborate in a mechanism of regulation, are represented by means of syntactic categories. A small set of phrase structure rules restricted by an X-bar principle and by a hierarchical, c-command relation generates a representation of arrays of sites of regulation where the selection of the protein(s) identifying the system(s) of regulation occurs. Based on the features of the proteins, optional duplicated proximal and remote sites are generated by means of transformational rules. Consistency with the data, the predictions that the grammar generates, and important similarities and differences with some aspects of the generative theory of natural language are discussed.	1992 Oct	Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
1644746	Different plasmids of Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. phaseoli are required for optimal symbiotic performance.	Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. phaseoli CFN42 contains six plasmids (pa to pf), and pd has been shown to be the symbiotic plasmid. To determine the participation of the other plasmids in cellular functions, we used a positive selection scheme to isolate derivatives cured of each plasmid. These were obtained for all except one (pe), of which only deleted derivatives were recovered. In regard to symbiosis, we found that in addition to pd, pb is also indispensable for nodulation, partly owing to the presence of genes involved in lipopolysaccharide synthesis. The positive contribution of pb, pc, pe, and pf to the symbiotic capacity of the strain was revealed in competition experiments. The strains that were cured (or deleted for pe) were significantly less competitive than the wild type. Analysis of the growth capacity of the cured strains showed the participation of the plasmids in free-living conditions: the pf- strain was unable to grow on minimal medium, while strains cured of any other plasmid had significantly reduced growth capacity in this medium. Even on rich medium, strains lacking pb or pc or deleted for pe had a diminished growth rate compared with the wild type. Complementation of the cured strains with the corresponding wild-type plasmid restored their original phenotypes, thus confirming that the effects seen were due only to loss of plasmids. The results indicate global participation of the Rhizobium genome in symbiotic and free-living functions.	1992 Aug	Brom, S; Brom, S; Brom; García de los Santos, A; García de los Santos, A; García de los Santos; Stepkowsky, T; Stepkowsky, T; Stepkowsky; Flores, M; Flores, M; Flores; Dávila, G; Dávila, G; Dávila; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios	J Bacteriol
1573904	A dynamical model for a co-operative enzyme.	Proteins partially immersed in the hydrophobic portion of a lipid bilayer interact by means of London-van der Waals non-bonding dispersion forces. Moreover, in certain organelles, enzymes are structured in a lattice or ordered matrix. These conditions may facilitate the establishment of long-range correlations between proteins. We studied the dynamical properties of a model for an enzyme endowed with a highly co-operative conformational transition between two reactive states. Two cases were considered, a closed system and an open system. In the closed system for different degrees of interaction among the proteins, it was found that for a substrate concentration greater than a certain threshold an abrupt change of enzymatic activity occurs. This biphasic behavior has been observed in the enzymatic activity of crystalline mitochondrial aspartate aminotransferase and for some other crystalline enzymes. In the analysis of the open system, for a specific input rate of the substrate, two different dynamics were found depending on the selected degree of interaction. For a certain value of a parameter phi, representing the degree of interaction among the reacting units, three steady states co-exist. This multiplicity confers excitable properties to the model. For larger values of phi, limit cycle type solutions were obtained. Thus, a sustained oscillatory product formation of the enzymatic reaction is observed. These results are compared with experimental observations of enzyme extracts detected by NMR.	1992 Jan	Lara-Ochoa, F; Lara-Ochoa, F; Lara-Ochoa; Herrera, A; Herrera, A; Herrera	J Theor Biol
1524708	The multiple-minima problem in small peptides revisited. The Threshold Accepting approach.	A recently reported optimization method, known as Threshold Accepting, was tested for the purpose of locating the structure of several peptide molecules with the lowest conformational energy. A comparison with previous results obtained with the Simulated Annealing technique was made. Our study indicate Threshold Accepting as a better technique in locating such structures.	1992 Apr	Morales, L B; Morales, LB; Morales; Garduño-Juárez, R; Garduño-Juárez, R; Garduño-Juárez; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero	J Biomol Struct Dyn
1943993	Control site location and transcriptional regulation in Escherichia coli.	The regulatory regions for 119 Escherichia coli promoters have been analyzed, and the locations of the regulatory sites have been cataloged. The following observations emerge. (i) More than 95% of promoters are coregulated with at least one other promoter. (ii) Virtually all sigma 70 promoters contain at least one regulatory site in a proximal position, touching at least position -65 with respect to the start point of transcription. There are not yet clear examples of upstream regulation in the absence of a proximal site. (iii) Operators within regulons appear in very variable proximal positions. By contrast, the proximal activation sites of regulons are much more fixed. (iv) There is a forbidden zone for activation elements downstream from approximately position -20 with respect to the start of transcription. By contrast, operators can occur throughout the proximal region. When activation elements appear in the forbidden zone, they repress. These latter examples usually involve autoregulation. (v) Approximately 40% of repressible promoters contain operator duplications. These occur either in certain regulons where duplication appears to be a requirement for repressor action or in promoters subject to complex regulation. (vi) Remote operator duplications occur in approximately 10% of repressible promoters. They generally appear when a multiple promoter region is coregulated by cyclic AMP receptor protein. (vii) Sigma 54 promoters do not require proximal or precisely positioned activator elements and are not generally subject to negative regulation. Rationales are presented for all of the above observations.	1991 Sep	Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Magasanik, B; Magasanik, B; Magasanik; Gralla, J D; Gralla, JD; Gralla	Microbiol Rev
1715738	Rhizobium tropici, a novel species nodulating Phaseolus vulgaris L. beans and Leucaena sp. trees.	A new Rhizobium species that nodulates Phaseolus vulgaris L. and Leucaena spp. is proposed on the basis of the results of multilocus enzyme electrophoresis, DNA-DNA hybridization, an analysis of ribosomal DNA organization, a sequence analysis of 16S rDNA, and an analysis of phenotypic characteristics. This taxon, Rhizobium tropici sp. nov., was previously named Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar phaseoli (type II strains) and was recognized by its host range (which includes Leucaena spp.) and nif gene organization. In contrast to R. leguminosarum biovar phaseoli, R. tropici strains tolerate high temperatures and high levels of acidity in culture and are symbiotically more stable. We identified two subgroups within R. tropici and describe them in this paper.	1991 Jul	Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Segovia, L; Segovia, L; Segovia; Mercante, F M; Mercante, FM; Mercante; Franco, A A; Franco, AA; Franco; Graham, P; Graham, P; Graham; Pardo, M A; Pardo, MA; Pardo	Int J Syst Bacteriol
1913213	The search for a grammatical theory of gene regulation is formally justified by showing the inadequacy of context-free grammars.	No one questions the important practical contributions of computer sciences to molecular biology. It may well be that one day theoretical contributions also will become useful. One example of this type of interdisciplinary research is the attempt to construct a grammatical theory of the regulation of gene expression. In this paper, I demonstrate that context-free grammars are inadequate for the description of regulatory properties coded in the DNA. This result is supported by data available in the literature that show changes in the specificity of the recognition between regulatory proteins and their DNA targets. This result is an important limitation for the use of statistical approaches such as information theory as a source of inspiration for a theory of gene regulation. Additionally, such a demonstration gives formal justification to the search for more elaborate grammatical models in the study of gene regulation. Some basic proposals for such grammatical approach have been presented previously.	1991 Jul	Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Comput Appl Biosci
2013564	Structural complexity of the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. phaseoli.	The complete physical map of the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. phaseoli strain CFN42 was established. The data support the concept that Rhizobium symbiotic genes are part of a complex genomic structure which contains a large amount of reiterated DNA sequences. This plasmid is a circular structure of 390 kb with approximately 10 families of internally reiterated DNA sequences of two to three elements each. One family includes two directly oriented nitrogenase operons situated 120 kb apart. We also found several stretches of pSym that are reiterated in other replicons of the cell. Localization of symbiotic gene sequences by heterologous hybridization revealed that nodABC sequences are separated in two regions, each of which contains a nod boxlike element, and it also suggested the presence of two copies of the nifA and nodD gene sequences. We propose that the complex structure of the symbiotic plasmid allows interactions between repeated DNA sequences which, in turn, might result in frequent rearrangements.	1991 Apr	Girard, M L; Girard, ML; Girard; Flores, M; Flores, M; Flores; Brom, S; Brom, S; Brom; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios; Dávila, G; Dávila, G; Dávila	J Bacteriol
17014780	A dynamical model for phospholipid-calcium binding.	A model for an isothermal gel-liquid crystalline transition induced by ionic binding is proposed. A Ginsburg-Landau functional was used to describe the long-range order that spontaneously arises during the transition. By calculation of the corresponding chemical potential we obtain the mass current of phospholipids in gel-phase described by an order parameter. In the conservation of mass equation the kinetics of the phospholipids-calcium interaction is introduced, together with the flux divergency. A circular membrane is considered for the analysis, so that the model can be studied in polar coordinates. A solution approximated to first order shows an heterogeneous distribution of domains of phospholipids in gel and liquid crystalline phases. These spatial domains have been detected experimentally by diverse methods in vesicles and cellular membranes. Spatial heterogeneities may cause destabilization of the membrane in the boundaries between domains. This may explain the enhanced vesicle fusion observed in the presence of Ca2+.	1991 May	Lara-Ochoa, F; Lara-Ochoa, F; Lara-Ochoa	Biophys Chem
1827113	Loss of NAD(P)-reducing power and glutathione disulfide excretion at the start of induction of aerial growth in Neurospora crassa.	When exponentially growing hyphae of Neurospora crassa in aerated liquid cultures are filtered and the resulting mycelial mat is exposed to air, aerial hyphae develop and synchronous conidiation is obtained. The hyphae in direct contact with air adhere to each other within minutes and form aerial hyphae during the following 12 h; the hyphae which are not in direct contact with air do not adhere to each other and do not form aerial hyphae. Previous data indicated that oxidative stress was generated in the adhering hyphae; proteins and specific enzymes were found to be oxidatively modified and degraded. In this work, we report a dramatic fall in the reduced-to-oxidized ratio of NAD and NADP coenzymes during the first 6 min of exposure to air. This drop did not occur in a mycelial mat exposed to a N2-enriched atmosphere. Adding a carbon source to the mycelial mat did not abolish the loss of NAD(P)-reducing power. After the initial fall, the reducing levels of the coenzymes returned to the starting value in about 30 min. A peak of extracellular glutathione disulfide occurred simultaneously with the loss of NAD(P)-reducing power. The reducing power loss and the excretion of glutathione disulfide are thought to be consequences of a hyperoxidant state; the adhesion of hyphae is thought to be a response to the hyperoxidant state.	1991 May	Toledo, I; Toledo, I; Toledo; Noronha-Dutra, A A; Noronha-Dutra, AA; Noronha-Dutra; Hansberg, W; Hansberg, W; Hansberg	J Bacteriol
2022610	Molecular cloning and characterization of the recA gene of Rhizobium phaseoli and construction of recA mutants.	The Rhizobium phaseoli recA gene has been cloned by interspecific complementation of the Fec phenotype of bacteriophage lambda. The cloned gene restored the recombination proficiency and conferred resistance to DNA-damaging agents (methyl methanesulfonate and nitrofurantoin) to an Escherichia coli recA mutant. The direction of transcription and the localization of the recA gene were determined by mutagenesis with phage MudIIPR13 and heterologous hybridization with an E. coli recA probe. An R. phaseoli recA::Spcr mutation was introduced in two R. phaseoli strains by homogenotization. The R. phaseoli recA mutants were more sensitive to DNA-damaging agents and exhibited a 100-fold reduction in recombination frequency as compared with their parental strains. A deletion of the symbiotic plasmid abolishing nodulation was found at high frequency (10(-2)) in R. phaseoli CNF42. This event was recA dependent. In R. phaseoli CFN285, two events of symbiotic instability were found at high frequency (10(-3]: one was a deletion in the symbiotic plasmid, and the other was the loss of whole symbiotic plasmid. In the CFN285 recA::Spcr mutant, only the loss of the symbiotic plasmid was observed.	1991 May	Martínez-Salazar, J M; Martínez-Salazar, JM; Martínez-Salazar; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Girard, M L; Girard, ML; Girard; Dávila, G; Dávila, G; Dávila	J Bacteriol
2013567	Amplification and deletion of a nod-nif region in the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium phaseoli.	One remarkable characteristic of the genomes of some Rhizobium species is the frequent occurrence of rearrangements. In some instances these rearrangements alter the symbiotic properties of the strains. However, no detailed molecular mechanisms have been proposed for the generation of these rearrangements. To understand the mechanisms involved in the formation of rearrangements in the genome of Rhizobium phaseoli, we have designed a system which allows the positive selection for amplification and deletion events. We have applied this system to investigate the stability of the symbiotic plasmid of R. phaseoli. High-frequency amplification events were detected which increase the copy number of a 120-kb region carrying nodulation and nitrogen fixation genes two to eight times. Deletion events that affect the same region were also found, albeit at a lower frequency. Both kinds of rearrangements are generated by recombination between reiterated nitrogenase (nifHDK) operons flanking the 120-kb region.	1991 Apr	Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Brom, S; Brom, S; Brom; Martínez-Salazar, J; Martínez-Salazar, J; Martínez-Salazar; Girard, M L; Girard, ML; Girard; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios; Dávila, G; Dávila, G; Dávila	J Bacteriol
1857210	Formation of Rhizobium phaseoli symbiotic plasmids by genetic recombination.	We report here the formation of symbiotic plasmids (pSyms), by genetic recombination between rearranged pSyms, which lack symbiotic information, and resistance plasmids carrying parts of different symbiotic plasmids (R's). This recombination was found to occur both between plasmids derived from different Rhizobium phaseoli isolates, and between plasmids derived from strains obtained from the same original isolate. We also present evidence on the formation of a functional symbiotic plasmid by recombination of an R', carrying nif and nod genes from strain CFN42, and an indigenous plasmid present in this strain (pCFN42e), which was thought to be unrelated to its symbiotic plasmid (pCFN42d). These data are discussed with respect to the stability and transfer of Rhizobium symbiotic information.	1991 Apr	Soberón-Chávez, G; Soberón-Chávez, G; Soberón-Chávez; Nájera, R; Nájera, R; Nájera; Espín, G; Espín, G; Espín; Moreno, S; Moreno, S; Moreno	Mol Microbiol
1707606	Genetic structure of a soil population of nonsymbiotic Rhizobium leguminosarum.	The genetic structure of a population of nonsymbiotic Rhizobium leguminosarum strains was determined by the electrophoretic mobilities of eight metabolic enzymes. Nonsymbiotic strains were isolated from the rhizosphere of bean plants and characterized by growth on differential media and at different temperatures, intrinsic antibiotic resistance, the lack of homology to a nifH probe, and their inability to form nodules on bean roots. All the isolates clustered with R. leguminosarum bv. phaseoli reference strains and did not encompass any other Rhizobium taxa. Their rRNA operon restriction fragment length polymorphisms and the nucleotide sequence of a fragment of the 16S rRNA gene were also found to be identical to those of R. leguminosarum bv. phaseoli reference strains. When complemented with an R. leguminosarum bv. phaseoli symbiotic plasmid (p42d), the nonsymbiotic isolates were able to fix nitrogen in symbiosis with bean roots at levels similar to those of the parental strain. The symbiotic isolates were found at a relative frequency of 1 in 40 nonsymbiotic R. leguminosarum strains.	1991 Feb	Segovia, L; Segovia, L; Segovia; Piñero, D; Piñero, D; Piñero; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Appl Environ Microbiol
2016896	A dynamical model for phase transitions of lipids induced by calcium ions.	Lipid membranes exist essentially in two different phases. A phase transition can be triggered off either by changing the temperature or, isothermally, by varying an external factor such as ionic concentration, pH, organic solvents, etc. Since the isothermal transition may be induced at physiological temperature, it may play an important regulatory role in diverse cellular functions. Based on the Landau-Ginsburg theory, the thermotropic transitions of lipids has been described by a number of models. In the present work a dynamical model for an isothermal phase transition of phospholipids induced by ionic binding is proposed. The properties of the model show that by ionic binding, phospholipids may form spatial heterogeneous distributions of lipids in fluid and crystalline phases. This heterogeneity possibly being the cause of membrane instabilities, which favour enhanced vesicle fusions observed in the presence of Ca2+.	1991 Feb	Lara-Ochoa, F; Lara-Ochoa, F; Lara-Ochoa; Lara-Moreno, E; Lara-Moreno, E; Lara-Moreno	J Theor Biol
2016901	A syntactic representation of units of genetic information--a syntax of units of genetic information.	The experimental study of the molecular mechanisms involved in the regulation of operons and other units of genetic information (UGIs) has not been accompanied by a parallel effort in integrative approaches. Following a recently obtained mathematical justification in the search of a grammatical theory of regulation, in this paper it is shown that a syntactic representation of prokaryotic simple UGIs can help the search for general rules governing their organization and regulation. Molecular categories like promoter, operator, structural gene, etc, are the elements for this level of analysis. Based on diverse types of evidence available in the literature, a principle which establishes a strictly successive representation of UGIs regulated at the initiation of transcription is derived. This linear array of categories is not enough for proposing general rules, which can be obtained by identifying groups of these categories as clusters or syntactic categories. It is shown that the notion of syntactic categories is implicitly used in the classical definition of an operon. Based on a hierarchy of biological restrictions for the construction of UGIs, a grammatical principle that defines a hierarchical relation among activator regions, promoters and operators is proposed. These proposals are integrated in a grammar that accounts for simple positively and negatively regulated UGIs.	1991 Feb	Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	J Theor Biol
2059338	Applications of simulated annealing to the multiple-minima problem in small peptides.	A Simulated Annealing method has been implemented to overcome the multiple minima problem inherent in finding the global minimum of small peptides with 2, 3, 5, 10 and 24 dihedral angles. The algorithm works much better if one introduces the anticorrelations observed in Molecular Dynamics.	1991 Feb	Morales, L B; Morales, LB; Morales; Garduño-Juárez, R; Garduño-Juárez, R; Garduño-Juárez; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero	J Biomol Struct Dyn
1991727	High-frequency rearrangements in Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. phaseoli plasmids.	High-frequency genomic rearrangements affecting the plasmids of Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. phaseoli CFN42 were analyzed. This strain contains six large plasmids ranging in size from 200 to 600 kb. In the absence of any selective pressure, we found 11 strains from 320 analyzed colonies that presented different kinds of plasmid-borne rearrangements, including sequence amplification, deletion, cointegration, and loss of plasmids. These data support the concept that the R. leguminosarum bv. phaseoli genome is a dynamic structure and imply that strains are mixtures of similar but not identical cells.	1991 Feb	Brom, S; Brom, S; Brom; García de los Santos, A; García de los Santos, A; García de los Santos; de Lourdes Girard, M; de Lourdes Girard, M; de Lourdes Girard; Dávila, G; Dávila, G; Dávila; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero	J Bacteriol
1991718	Novel organization of the common nodulation genes in Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. phaseoli strains.	Nodulation by Rhizobium, Bradyrhizobium, and Azorhizobium species in the roots of legumes and nonlegumes requires the proper expression of plant genes and of both common and specific bacterial nodulation genes. The common nodABC genes form an operon or are physically mapped together in all species studied thus far. Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. phaseoli strains are classified in two groups. The type I group has reiterated nifHDK genes and a narrow host range of nodulation. The type II group has a single copy of the nifHDK genes and a wide host range of nodulation. We have found by genetic and nucleotide sequence analysis that in type I strain CE-3, the functional common nodA gene is separated from the nodBC genes by 20 kb and thus is transcriptionally separated from the latter genes. This novel organization could be the result of a complex rearrangement, as we found zones of identity between the two separated nodA and nodBC regions. Moreover, this novel organization of the common nodABC genes seems to be a general characteristic of R. leguminosarum bv. phaseoli type I strains. Despite the separation, the coordination of the expression of these genes seems not to be altered.	1991 Feb	Vázquez, M; Vázquez, M; Vázquez; Dávalos, A; Dávalos, A; Dávalos; de las Peñas, A; de las Peñas, A; de las Peñas; Sánchez, F; Sánchez, F; Sánchez; Quinto, C; Quinto, C; Quinto	J Bacteriol
1863715	On the skew distribution of immunoglobulins and the inverted protein-folding problem.	The question of antibody specificity is discussed in the framework of the inverted protein-folding problem (i.e. the characterization of protein sequences with a common fold). A stochastic model of the immune response, patterned after a model for the distribution of words in natural languages is proposed. It is shown that the steady-state probability distribution of immunoglobulin variable-region frequencies is the Yule distribution.	1991	Jiménez-Montaño, M A; Jiménez-Montaño, MA; Jiménez-Montaño; Lara-Ochoa, F; Lara-Ochoa, F; Lara-Ochoa	Biosystems
1975579	Isolation and characterization of a Neurospora crassa mutant altered in the alpha polypeptide of glutamine synthetase.	We report the isolation and characterization of a Neurospora crassa glutamine synthetase (GS) mutant altered in one of the two polypeptides (GS alpha) of this enzyme. We used the gln-1bR8 mutant strain that synthesizes only the GS alpha monomer and lacks the GS beta monomer and selected for growth in minimal medium in the presence of alpha-methyl-DL-methionine-SR-sulfoximine (alpha-me-MSO), an inhibitor of GS activity. The GS activity of the gln-1bR8;alpha-me-MSOR strain drastically reduced its transferase activity and only slightly reduced its synthetase activity, and it was resistant to inhibition by alpha-me-MSO and L-methionine-DL-sulfoximine. The mutation that overcame the inhibitory effect of alpha-me-MSO also altered the antigenic, kinetic, and physical properties of GS alpha. The low GS activity of the alpha-me-MSO-resistant strain was compensated for by a higher glutamate/glutamine ratio and a lower glutamate synthase activity, allowing this strain to grow as well as the parental strain. The mutation that conferred resistance to alpha-me-MSO was not linked to the gln-1bR8 mutation, providing direct evidence of the existence of two genes involved with the structure of the two polypeptides of N. crassa GS.	1990 Sep	Calderón, J; Calderón, J; Calderón; Martínez, L M; Martínez, LM; Martínez; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
2145504	Glutamine metabolism and cycling in Neurospora crassa.	Evidence for the existence of a glutamine cycle in Neurospora crassa is reviewed. Through this cycle glutamine is converted into glutamate by glutamate synthase and catabolized by the glutamine transaminase-omega-amidase pathway, the products of which (2-oxoglutarate and ammonium) are the substrates for glutamate dehydrogenase-NADPH, which synthesizes glutamate. In the final step ammonium is assimilated into glutamine by the action of a glutamine synthetase (GS), which is formed by two distinct polypeptides, one catalytically very active (GS beta), and the other (GS alpha) less active but endowed with the capacity to modulate the activity of GS alpha. Glutamate synthase uses the amide nitrogen of glutamine to synthesize glutamate; glutamate dehydrogenase uses ammonium, and both are required to maintain the level of glutamate. The energy expended in the synthesis of glutamine drives the cycle. The glutamine cycle is not futile, because it is necessary to drive an effective carbon flow to support growth; in addition, it facilitates the allocation of nitrogen or carbon according to cellular demands. The glutamine cycle which dissipates energy links catabolism and anabolism and, in doing so, buffers variations in the nutrient supply and drives energy generation and carbon flow for optimal cell function.	1990 Sep	Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	Microbiol Rev
16348252	Increased Bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) Nodulation Competitiveness of Genetically Modified Rhizobium Strains.	Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. phaseoli strain collections harbor heterogeneous groups of bacteria in which two main types of strains may be distinguished, differing both in the symbiotic plasmid and in the chromosome. We have analyzed under laboratory conditions the competitive abilities of the different types of Rhizobium strains capable of nodulating Phaseolus vulgaris L. bean. R. leguminosarum bv. phaseoli type I strains (characterized by nif gene reiterations and a narrow host range) are more competitive than type II strains (that have a broad host range), and both types are more competitive than the promiscuous rhizobia isolated from other tropical legumes able to nodulate beans. Type I strains become even more competitive by the transfer of a non-Sym, 225-kilobase plasmid from type II strain CFN299. This plasmid has been previously shown to enhance the nodulation and nitrogen fixation capabilities of Agrobacterium tumefaciens transconjugants carrying the Sym plasmid of strain CFN299. Other type I R. leguminosarum bv. phaseoli transconjugants carrying two symbiotic plasmids (type I and type II) have been constructed. These strains have a diminished competitive ability. The increase of competitiveness obtained in some transconjugants seems to be a transient property.	1990 Aug	Martinez-Romero, Esperanza; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Rosenblueth, Monica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth	Appl Environ Microbiol
2116373	Induction of inhibitory agent produced by Enterococcus faecalis.	The effect of treatment with inducing agents, such as mitomycin C, hydrogen peroxide and UV irradiation on the production of two inhibitors by different mutants from Enterococcus faecalis S-48 was studied. With hydrogen peroxide and UV light no increase in either the absolute or the relative amount of antagonistic substances was observed. With mitomycin C, a significant increase in the individual cell capacity for inhibitor production was detected.	1990	Lara, I; Lara, I; Lara; Martínez-Bueno, M; Martínez-Bueno, M; Martínez-Bueno; Gálvez, A; Gálvez, A; Gálvez; Maqueda, M; Maqueda, M; Maqueda; Valdivia, E; Valdivia, E; Valdivia	Folia Microbiol (Praha)
2155209	Isolation of Rhizobium phaseoli Tn5-induced mutants with altered expression of cytochrome terminal oxidases o and aa3.	Two Rhizobium phaseoli mutants affected in cytochrome expression were obtained by Tn5-mob mutagenesis of the wild-type strain (CE3). Mutant strain CFN031 expressed sevenfold less cytochrome o in culture, expressed cytochrome aa3 under microaerophilic culture conditions, in contrast to strain CE3, and was affected in its vegetative growth properties and proliferation inside plant host cells. Mutant CFN037 expressed cytochrome aa3 under microaerophilic culture conditions, while bacteroid development and nitrogen fixation occurred earlier than in strain CE3.	1990 Mar	Soberón, M; Soberón, M; Soberón; Membrillo-Hernández, J; Membrillo-Hernández, J; Membrillo-Hernández; Aguilar, G R; Aguilar, GR; Aguilar; Sánchez, F; Sánchez, F; Sánchez	J Bacteriol
2352433	Hyperoxidant states cause microbial cell differentiation by cell isolation from dioxygen.	A general theory giving an explanation of microbial cell differentiation is presented. Based on experimental results, an unstable hyperoxidant state is postulated to trigger differentiation. Simple rules, involving the reduction of dioxygen and the isolation from dioxygen by diverse mechanisms, are proposed to govern transitions between the growth state and the differentiated states. With this view, common features of microbial differentiation processes, dimorphic growth, cell differentiation in dioxygen evolving phototrophs and in anaerobes are analyzed. The theory could have implications for understanding cell differentiation in higher organisms.	1990 Jan	Hansberg, W; Hansberg, W; Hansberg; Aguirre, J; Aguirre, J; Aguirre	J Theor Biol
2127375	A model for aggregation-dispersion dynamics of a population.	An important feature that distinguishes the movement of living systems from the random motion of inorganic material is a delicate balance between spreading and concentrating. This movement is based on the kind of interactions which a bacterial colony may establish during migration. Namely, the antagonistic effects of dispersal which take place preferentially down the population gradient and the tendency in grouping together. In this work a model is proposed which considers these effects. The phase plane analysis and the numerical calculations reveal the existence of stable sharp wave front solutions. The speed of the wave front is modulated by the compromise between the tendencies of spreading and aggregating. The results obtained were compared with experimental observations in cultures of Escherichia coli and Streptococcus faecalis. The agreement between both types of results supports the hypothesis on which the model was based.	1990	Lara-Ochoa, F; Lara-Ochoa, F; Lara-Ochoa; Bustos, V P; Bustos, VP; Bustos	Biosystems
2073542	Density dependent diffusional model of an infective population.	In this work, we present a density-dependent diffusional model which, coupled to three different types of growth, permitted us to study the infective potential of a bacteria species. The results show that those species with strong internal competency have the higher colonizing capacity in terms of invasion speed. Here, we also advanced a model for the static spatial inhomogeneous distribution that some species establish after migration. It is proposed that the origin of these patterns is the result of a balance between the dispersal tendency and the attractive behavior. The results obtained were compared with the observed behavior of Rhizobium spp. during infection of leguminous roots. A possible explanation of the observed morphologies of nodule development in different legumes is suggested.	1990	Lara-Ochoa, F; Lara-Ochoa, F; Lara-Ochoa; Bustos, V P; Bustos, VP; Bustos	Biosystems
1368518	Subunit structure of karatasin, the proteinase isolated from Bromelia plumieri (karatas).	Close to 15% of the karatasin proteinase activity in the fruit juice of Bromelia plumieri (karatas) is present outside dialysis Visking tubing in 7 days in 0.2 M acetate buffer (pH) 3.5 or 6.5) containing phenyl mercuric acetate. The small proteinase(s), distinct from the 85% activity in juice due to nondialysable karatasin with a reported Mr of 24,868, separates across Spectrapore (13 kDa) membranes but not across Spectrapore with 3.5 kDa average pore diameter. The dialyzed proteinase is named karatasin-D (K-D). Purified non-Dialysable karatasin can be dissociated to what seems to be K-D by incubation in a buffer solution, containing SDS and 2-mercaptoethanol with phenyl mercuric acetate, in dialysis experiments for 8 days at room temperature using Spectrapore 13 kDa tubing. Thus, native karatasin in B. plumieri fruit juice seem to be the result of association of 2 small molecular mass K-D subunits, linked together by disulfide bonds and electrostatic forces, in equilibrium with small amounts of free K-D molecules. The amino acid composition and partial sequence of karatasin up to the 14th position from the amino terminus have discrete analogies with papain and with stem bromelain.	1990 Jan	Montes, C; Montes, C; Montes; Amador, M; Amador, M; Amador; Cuevas, D; Cuevas, D; Cuevas; Cordoba, F; Cordoba, F; Cordoba	Agric Biol Chem
2687252	Isolation and characterization of a Saccharomyces cerevisiae mutant with impaired glutamate synthase activity.	A mutant of Saccharomyces cerevisiae that lacks glutamate synthase (GOGAT) activity has been isolated. This mutant was obtained after chemical mutagenesis of a NADP-glutamate dehydrogenase-less mutant strain. The gdh gus mutant is a glutamate auxotroph. The genetic analysis of the gus mutant showed that the GOGAT-less phenotype is due to the presence of two loosely linked mutations. Evidence is presented which suggests the possibility that S. cerevisiae has two GOGAT activities, designated GOGAT A and GOGAT B. These activities can be distinguished by their pH optima and by their regulation by glutamate. Furthermore, one of the mutations responsible for the GOGAT-less phenotype affected GOGAT A activity, while the other mutation affected GOGAT B activity.	1989 Dec	Folch, J L; Folch, JL; Folch; Antaramián, A; Antaramián, A; Antaramián; Rodríguez, L; Rodríguez, L; Rodríguez; Bravo, A; Bravo, A; Bravo; Brunner, A; Brunner, A; Brunner; González, A; González, A; González	J Bacteriol
2530208	Oxidation of Neurospora crassa NADP-specific glutamate dehydrogenase by activated oxygen species.	The glutamine synthetase and the NADP-specific glutamate dehydrogenase activities of Neurospora crassa were lost in a culture without carbon source only when in the presence of air. Glutamine synthetase was previously reported to be liable to in vitro and in vivo inactivation by activated oxygen species. Here we report that NADP-specific glutamate dehydrogenase was remarkably stable in the presence of activated oxygen species but was rendered susceptible to oxidative inactivation when chelated iron was bound to the enzyme and either ascorbate or H2O2 reacted on the bound iron. This reaction gave rise to further modifications of the enzyme monomers by activated oxygen species, to partial dissociation of the oligomeric structure, and to precipitation and fragmentation of the enzyme. The in vitro oxidation reaction was affected by pH, temperature, and binding to the enzyme of NADPH. Heterogeneity in total charge was observed in the purified and immunoprecipitated enzymes, and the relative amounts of enzyme monomers with different isoelectric points changes with time of the oxidizing reaction.	1989 Nov	Aguirre, J; Aguirre, J; Aguirre; Rodríguez, R; Rodríguez, R; Rodríguez; Hansberg, W; Hansberg, W; Hansberg	J Bacteriol
2576659	Glutamine assimilation pathways in Neurospora crassa growing on glutamine as sole nitrogen and carbon source.	Neurospora crassa wild-type is almost unable to grow on glutamine as sole nitrogen and carbon source but a GDH-; GS +/- double mutant strain, lacking NADP-dependent glutamate dehydrogenase and partially lacking glutamine synthetase did grow. Under these conditions, the double mutant had a higher chemical energy content than the wild-type. Enzyme assays and labelling experiments with glutamine indicated that in the double mutant glutamine was degraded to ammonium and to carbon skeletons by glutamate synthase, the catabolic (NADH-dependent) glutamate dehydrogenase and the glutamine transaminase-omega-amidase pathway.	1989 Oct	Calderón, J; Calderón, J; Calderón; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Gen Microbiol
2698914	Role of glutamine aminotransferase in glutamine catabolism by Saccharomyces cerevisiae under microaerophilic conditions.	The involvement of glutamine aminotransferase activity in glutamine catabolism by Saccharomyces cerevisiae under microaerophilic conditions was studied. We were able to show that there are at least two different glutamine aminotransferase activities that are differentiated genetically, by their substrate specificity (pyruvate and glyoxylate dependence), and their different modes of regulation. The pyruvate-dependent glutamine aminotransferase activity plays a major role in glutamine catabolism under microaerophilic conditions since the wild-type strain S288C showed a 10-fold higher activity in static cultures than in agitated ones. The same strain also had 3-fold higher glutaminase B activity in agitated cultures than in static ones. Pyruvate-dependent glutamine aminotransferase activity is not regulated directly by O2 itself since a rho- strain showed a high activity regardless of the extent of aeration of cultures. Finally, we were able to isolate a mutant, strain CN20, derived from the rho- strain and unable to utilize glutamine as the sole nitrogen source, which was severely affected in pyruvate-dependent but not in glyoxylate-dependent aminotransferase activity.	1989 Oct	Soberón, M; Soberón, M; Soberón; Olamendi, J; Olamendi, J; Olamendi; Rodríguez, L; Rodríguez, L; Rodríguez; González, A; González, A; González	J Gen Microbiol
2552255	Characterization of Rhizobium phaseoli Sym plasmid regions involved in nodule morphogenesis and host-range specificity.	Two nodulation regions from the symbiotic plasmid (pSym) of Rhizobium phaseoli CE-3 were identified. The two regions were contained in overlapping cosmids pSM927 and pSM991. These cosmids, in a R. phaseoli pSym-cured strain background, induced ineffective nodules on Phaseolus vulgaris roots. Transconjugants of Rhizobium meliloti harbouring pSM991 induced nodule-like structures on bean roots, suggesting that this cosmid contains host-range determinants. Analysis of deletions and insertional mutations in the sequences of pSM991 indicated that the genes responsible for the induction and development of nodules in P. vulgaris are organized in two regions 20 kb apart. One region, located in a 6.8 kb EcoRI fragment, includes the common nodABC genes. The other region, located in a 3.5 kb EcoRI fragment, contains information required for host-range determination.	1989 Jul	Cevallos, M A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Vázquez, M; Vázquez, M; Vázquez; Dávalos, A; Dávalos, A; Dávalos; Espín, G; Espín, G; Espín; Sepúlveda, J; Sepúlveda, J; Sepúlveda; Quinto, C; Quinto, C; Quinto	Mol Microbiol
2522094	13N isotope studies of glutamine assimilation pathways in Neurospora crassa.	L-[amide-13N]glutamine in Neurospora crassa is metabolized to [13N]glutamate by glutamate synthase and to [13N]ammonium by the glutamine transaminase-omega-amidase pathway. The [13N]ammonium released is assimilated by glutamate dehydrogenase and glutamine synthetase, confirming the operation of a glutamine cycle. Most of the nitrogen is retained during cycling between glutamate and glutamine.	1989 Mar	Calderón, J; Calderón, J; Calderón; Cooper, A J; Cooper, AJ; Cooper; Gelbard, A S; Gelbard, AS; Gelbard; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
2811400	A transformational-grammar approach to the study of the regulation of gene expression.	An important problem in biology is the lack of a set of common principles unifying biological knowledge. We propose generative grammar for constructing an integrative paradigm for the understanding of genome organization and the regulation of gene expression. Linguistic terms in molecular biology are defined. A genetic syntactic structure is defined as being equivalent to a sentence. The hypotheses for the grammar of genome structure are: (i) the "grammaticality" of the linguistic approach studies the "regulability" of genome structures; (ii) the "regulability" of genetic structures is independent from their specific biochemical meaning and (iii) the dynamics of regulation is implicit in the genome structure. A general structure is presented for the grammar; the application of phase-structure rules is justified by the existence of lexical categories. Transformational rules are utilized to represent loops of regulation. Negative inducible, positive repressible, positive inducible and negative repressible alternative mechanisms of regulation are represented, by four transformational rules, and the application of these rules is established by two principles. Finally, this approach is compared to other linguistic applications in molecular biology.	1989 Feb	Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	J Theor Biol
2644201	Isolation of a Rhizobium phaseoli cytochrome mutant with enhanced respiration and symbiotic nitrogen fixation.	Cultured cells of a Rhizobium phaseoli wild-type strain (CE2) possess b-type and c-type cytochromes and two terminal oxidases: cytochromes o and aa3. Cytochrome aa3 was partially expressed when CE2 cells were grown on minimal medium, during symbiosis, and in well-aerated liquid cultures in a complex medium (PY2). Two cytochrome mutants of R. phaseoli were obtained and characterized. A Tn5-mob-induced mutant, CFN4201, expressed diminished amounts of b-type and c-type cytochromes, showed an enhanced expression of cytochrome oxidases, and had reduced levels of N,N,N',N'-tetramethyl-p-phenylenediamine, succinate, and NADH oxidase activities. Nodules formed by this strain had no N2 fixation activity. The other mutant, CFN4205, which was isolated by nitrosoguanidine mutagenesis, had reduced levels of cytochrome o and higher succinate oxidase activity but similar NADH and N,N,N',N'-tetramethyl-p-phenylenediamine oxidase activities when compared with the wild-type strain. Strain CFN4205 expressed a fourfold-higher cytochrome aa3 content when cultured on minimal and complex media and had twofold-higher cytochrome aa3 levels during symbiosis when compared with the wild-type strain. Nodules formed by strain CFN4205 fixed 33% more N2 than did nodules formed by the wild-type strain, as judged by the total nitrogen content found in plants nodulated by these strains. Finally, low-temperature photodissociation spectra of whole cells from strains CE2 and CFN4205 reveal cytochromes o and aa3. Both cytochromes react with O2 at -180 degrees C to give a light-insensitive compound. These experiments identify cytochromes o and aa3 as functional terminal oxidases in R. phaseoli.	1989 Jan	Soberón, M; Soberón, M; Soberón; Williams, H D; Williams, HD; Williams; Poole, R K; Poole, RK; Poole; Escamilla, E; Escamilla, E; Escamilla	J Bacteriol
3214160	Genetic diversity and relationships among isolates of Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar phaseoli.	Fifty-one isolates of Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar phaseoli from various geographic and ecological sources, largely in Mexico, were characterized by the electrophoretic mobilities of 15 metabolic enzymes, and 46 distinctive multilocus genotypes (electrophoretic types [ETs]) were distinguished on the basis of allele profiles at the enzyme loci. Mean genetic diversity per enzyme locus among the 46 ETs was 0.691, the highest value yet recorded for any species of bacterium. The occurrence of strong nonrandom associations of alleles over loci suggested a basically clonal population structure, reflecting infrequent recombination of chromosomal genes. Multilocus genotypic diversity was unusually high, with the most strongly differentiated pairs of ETs having distinctive alleles at all 15 loci and major clusters of ETs diverging at genetic distances as large as 0.89. This great diversity in the chromosomal genome raises the possibility that R. leguminosarum biovar phaseoli is a polyphyletic assemblage of strains. As other workers have suggested, the inclusion of all strains capable of nodulating beans in a single biovar or species is genetically unrealistic and taxonomically misleading. A biologically meaningful classification of Rhizobium spp. should be based on assessment of variation in the chromosomal genome rather than on phenotypic characters, especially those mediated for the most part or wholly by plasmid-borne genes, such as host relationships.	1988 Nov	Pinero, D; Pinero, D; Pinero; Martinez, E; Martinez, E; Martinez; Selander, R K; Selander, RK; Selander	Appl Environ Microbiol
16347637	Narrow- and Broad-Host-Range Symbiotic Plasmids of Rhizobium spp. Strains That Nodulate Phaseolus vulgaris.	Agrobacterium transconjugants containing symbiotic plasmids from different Rhizobium spp. strains that nodulate Phaseolus vulgaris were obtained. All transconjugants conserved the parental nodulation host range. Symbiotic (Sym) plasmids of Rhizobium strains isolated originally from P. vulgaris nodules, which had a broad nodulation host range, and single-copy nitrogenase genes conferred a Fix phenotype to the Agrobacterium transconjugants. A Fix phenotype was obtained with Sym plasmids of strains isolated from P. vulgaris nodules that had a narrow host range and reiterated nif genes, as well as with Sym plasmids of strains isolated from other legumes that presented single nif genes and a broad nodulation host range. This indicates that different types of Sym plasmids can confer the ability to establish an effective symbiosis with P. vulgaris.	1988 May	Brom, S; Brom, S; Brom; Martinez, E; Martinez, E; Martinez; Dávila, G; Dávila, G; Dávila; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios	Appl Environ Microbiol
16347593	Effect of Naturally Occurring nif Reiterations on Symbiotic Effectiveness in Rhizobium phaseoli.	Most naturally occurring strains of Rhizobium phaseoli possess reiteration of the nif genes. Three regions contain nitrogenase structural genes in strain CFN42. Two of these regions (a and b) have copies of nifH, nifD, and nifK, whereas the third region (c) contains only nifH. Strains containing mutations in either nif region a or nif region b had significantly diminished symbiotic effectiveness compared with the wild-type strain on the basis of nodule mass, total nitrogenase activity per plant, nitrogenase specific activity, total nitrogen in the shoot, and percentage of nitrogen. A strain containing mutations in both nif region a and nif region b was totally ineffective. These data indicate that both nif region a and nif region b are needed for full symbiotic effectiveness in R. phaseoli.	1988 Mar	Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Singleton, Paul W; Singleton, PW; Singleton; Segovia, Lorenzo; Segovia, L; Segovia; Morett, Enrique; Morett, E; Morett; Bohlool, B Ben; Bohlool, BB; Bohlool; Palacios, Rafael; Palacios, R; Palacios; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila	Appl Environ Microbiol
2892829	Ammonium assimilation in Rhizobium phaseoli by the glutamine synthetase-glutamate synthase pathway.	Evidence from in vitro and in vivo studies showed that in Rhizobium phaseoli ammonium is assimilated by the glutamine synthetase (GS)-glutamate synthase NADPH pathway. No glutamate dehydrogenase activity was detected. R. phaseoli has two GS enzymes, as do other rhizobia. The two GS activities are regulated on the basis of the requirement for low (GSI) or high (GSII) ammonium assimilation. When the 2-oxoglutarate/glutamine ratio decreases, GSI is adenylylated. When GSI is inactivated, GSII is induced. However, induction of GSII activity varied depending on the rate of change of this ratio. GSII was inactivated after the addition of high ammonium concentrations, when the 2-oxoglutarate/glutamine ratio decreased rapidly. Ammonium inactivation resulted in alteration of the catalytic and physical properties of GSII. GSII inactivation was not relieved by shifting of the cultures to glutamate. After GSII inactivation, ammonium was excreted into the medium. Glutamate synthase activity was inhibited by some organic acids and repressed when cells were grown with glutamate as the nitrogen source.	1988 Feb	Bravo, A; Bravo, A; Bravo; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
2448295	gltBDF operon of Escherichia coli.	A 2.0-kilobase DNA fragment carrying antibiotic resistance markers was inserted into the gltB gene of Escherichia coli previously cloned in a multicopy plasmid. Replacement of the chromosomal gltB+ gene by the gltB225::omega mutation led to cells unable to synthesize glutamate synthase, utilize growth rate-limiting nitrogen sources, or derepress their glutamine synthetase. The existence of a gltBDF operon encoding the large (gltB) and small (gltD) subunits of glutamate synthase and a regulatory peptide (gltF) at 69 min of the E. coli linkage map was deduced from complementation analysis. A plasmid carrying the entire gltB+D+F+ operon complemented cells for all three of the mutant phenotypes associated with the polar gltB225::omega mutation in the chromosome. By contrast, plasmids carrying gltB+ only complemented cells for glutamate synthase activity. A major tricistronic mRNA molecule was detected from Northern (RNA blot) DNA-RNA hybridization experiments with DNA probes containing single genes of the operon. A 30,200-dalton polypeptide was identified as the gltF product, the lack of which was responsible for the inability of cells to use nitrogen-limiting sources associated with gltB225::omega.	1988 Feb	Castaño, I; Castaño, I; Castaño; Bastarrachea, F; Bastarrachea, F; Bastarrachea; Covarrubias, A A; Covarrubias, AA; Covarrubias	J Bacteriol
2892830	Introduction of the Escherichia coli gdhA gene into Rhizobium phaseoli: effect on nitrogen fixation.	Rhizobium phaseoli lacks glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) and assimilates ammonium by the glutamine synthetase-glutamate synthase pathway. A strain of R. phaseoli harboring the Escherichia coli GDH structural gene (gdhA) was constructed. GDH activity was expressed in R. phaseoli in the free-living state and in symbiosis. Nodules with bacteroids that expressed GDH activity had severe impairment of nitrogen fixation. Also, R. phaseoli cells that lost GDH activity and assimilated ammonium by the glutamine synthetase-glutamate synthase pathway preferentially nodulated Phaseolus vulgaris.	1988 Feb	Bravo, A; Bravo, A; Bravo; Becerril, B; Becerril, B; Becerril; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
3343217	Genomic instability in Rhizobium phaseoli.	Experience from different laboratories indicates that Rhizobium strains can generate variability in regard to some phenotypic characteristics such as colony morphology or symbiotic properties. On the other hand, several reports suggest that under certain stress conditions or genetic manipulations Rhizobium cells can present genomic rearrangements. In search of frequent genomic rearrangements, we analyzed three Rhizobium strains under laboratory conditions that are not considered to cause stress in bacterial populations. DNAs from direct descendants of a single cell were analyzed in regard to the hybridization patterns obtained, using as probes different recombinant plasmids or cosmids; while most of the probes utilized did not show differences in the hybridization patterns, some of them revealed the occurrence of frequent genomic rearrangements. The implications and possible biological significance of these observations are discussed.	1988 Mar	Flores, M; Flores, M; Flores; González, V; González, V; González; Pardo, M A; Pardo, MA; Pardo; Leija, A; Leija, A; Leija; Martínez, E; Martínez, E; Martínez; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Piñero, D; Piñero, D; Piñero; Dávila, G; Dávila, G; Dávila; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios	J Bacteriol
2959749	Regulation of carbon and nitrogen flow by glutamate synthase in Neurospora crassa.	A glycine-resistant Neurospora crassa mutant (am-132;glyr), derived from the am-132 mutant, was isolated and characterized. [am-132 itself has a deletion in the structural gene for NADP-dependent glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH).] This new mutation also conferred resistance to serine and methionine sulphoximine (MS), which are inhibitors of glutamine synthetase (GS). In addition, the mutant obtained grew better on ammonium than the am-132 parental strain. Resistance to glycine was not due to increased synthesis of glutamine by an altered or induced GS, nor to increased glutamate synthesis by induction of the catabolic NAD-dependent GDH, nor to NADH-dependent glutamate synthase (GOGAT), which was as sensitive to inhibitors as the GOGAT from the parental strain. The glycine-resistance mutation lowered but did not abolish the carbon flow; this resulted in a lower content of tricarboxylic acid cycle intermediates. GOGAT activity was inhibited in vitro by several organic acids and methionine sulphone (MSF). The higher growth rate of the glycine-resistant mutant on ammonium or on ammonium plus glycine, serine or MS was explained by an increased capacity of GOGAT to synthesize glutamate in vivo due to a lower content of inhibitory tricarboxylic acid cycle intermediates; the higher glutamate content overcomes the effect of the GS inhibitors and explains the MSF resistance of the mutant.	1987 Jul	Mora, Y; Mora, Y; Mora; Hernández, G; Hernández, G; Hernández; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Gen Microbiol
3450286	Reiterated DNA sequences in Rhizobium and Agrobacterium spp.	Repeated DNA sequences are a general characteristic of eucaryotic genomes. Although several examples of DNA reiteration have been found in procaryotic organisms, only in the case of the archaebacteria Halobacterium halobium and Halobacterium volcanii [C. Sapienza and W. F. Doolittle, Nature (London) 295:384-389, 1982], has DNA reiteration been reported as a common genomic feature. The genomes of two Rhizobium phaseoli strains, one Rhizobium meliloti strain, and one Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain were analyzed for the presence of repetitive DNA. Rhizobium and Agrobacterium spp. are closely related soil bacteria that interact with plants and that belong to the taxonomical family Rhizobiaceae. Rhizobium species establish a nitrogen-fixing symbiosis in the roots of legumes, whereas Agrobacterium species is a pathogen in different plants. The four strains revealed a large number of repeated DNA sequences. The family size was usually small, from 2 to 5 elements, but some presented more than 10 elements. Rhizobium and Agrobacterium spp. contain large plasmids in addition to the chromosomes. Analysis of the two Rhizobium strains indicated that DNA reiteration is not confined to the chromosome or to some plasmids but is a property of the whole genome.	1987 Dec	Flores, M; Flores, M; Flores; González, V; González, V; González; Brom, S; Brom, S; Brom; Martínez, E; Martínez, E; Martínez; Piñero, D; Piñero, D; Piñero; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Dávila, G; Dávila, G; Dávila; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios	J Bacteriol
2896226	Coordinated regulation of ammonium assimilation and carbon catabolism by glyoxylate in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The activities of citrate synthase (EC 4.1.3.7) and NADP+-dependent glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) (EC 1.4.1.4) of Saccharomyces cerevisiae were inhibited in vitro by glyoxylate. In the presence of glyoxylate, pyruvate and glyoxylate pools increased, suggesting that glyoxylate was efficiently transported and catabolized. Pyruvate accumulation also indicates that citrate synthase was inhibited. A decrease in the glutamate pool was also observed under these conditions. This can be attributed to an increased transamination rate and to the inhibitory effect of glyoxylate on NADP+-dependent GDH. Furthermore, the increase in the ammonium pool in the presence of glyoxylate suggests that NADP+-dependent GDH was being inhibited in vivo, since the activity of glutamine synthetase did not decrease under these conditions. We propose that the inhibition of both citrate synthase and NADP+-dependent GDH could form part of a mechanism that regulates the internal 2-oxoglutarate concentration.	1987 Sep	González, A; González, A; González; Rodríguez, L; Rodríguez, L; Rodríguez; Folch, J; Folch, J; Folch; Soberón, M; Soberón, M; Soberón; Olivera, H; Olivera, H; Olivera	J Gen Microbiol
16665575	Purification, cDNA Cloning, and Developmental Expression of the Nodule-Specific Uricase from Phaseolus vulgaris L.	Nodule-specific uricase (uricase II) from Phaseolus vulgaris L. was purified to homogeneity by chromatographic methods. Purification data indicated that uricase II is approximately 2% of the total soluble protein from mature nodules. Specific antiserum was raised and used to determine the developmental expression and for immunoselection of polysomes. Uricase II was antigenically detected early in nodule development, 2 to 3 days before nitrogen fixation. Uricase-encoding cDNA clones were isolated by hybridizing a nodule-specific pUC9 cDNA library with labeled mRNA from immunoselected polysomes and a 35,000 molecular weight uricase II-encoding cDNA from soybean. An homologous clone (pNF-UR07) was used to assess the expression pattern of the specific transcript during development. Northern-blot analysis indicated that uricase II mRNA is exclusively expressed in nodule tissue.	1987 Aug	Sánchez, F; Sánchez, F; Sánchez; Campos, F; Campos, F; Campos; Padilla, J; Padilla, J; Padilla; Bonneville, J M; Bonneville, JM; Bonneville; Enríquez, C; Enríquez, C; Enríquez; Caput, D; Caput, D; Caput	Plant Physiol
2889793	glnA mutations conferring resistance to methylammonium in Escherichia coli K12.	Cells of Escherichia coli K12 were sensitive to 100 mM-methylammonium when cultured under nitrogen limitation, and resistant when grown with an excess of either NH4Cl or glutamine. Glutamine synthetase activity was required for expression of the methylammonium-sensitive phenotype. Mutants were isolated which were resistant to 100 mM-methylammonium, even when grown under nitrogen limitation. P1 bacteriophage transduction and F' complementation analysis revealed that the resistance-conferring mutations mapped either inside the glnA structural gene and/or elsewhere in the E. coli chromosome. Glutamine synthetase was purified from the wild-type and from some of the mutant strains. Strains carrying glnA-linked mutations that were solely responsible for the methylammonium-resistant phenotype yielded an altered enzyme, which was less active biosynthetically with either ammonium or methylammonium as substrate. Sensitivity to methylammonium appeared to be due to synthesis of gamma-glutamylmethylamide by glutamine synthetase, which was synthesized poorly, if at all, by mutants carrying an altered glutamine synthetase enzyme.	1987 Jun	Servín-González, L; Servín-González, L; Servín-González; Ortiz, M; Ortiz, M; Ortiz; González, A; González, A; González; Bastarrachea, F; Bastarrachea, F; Bastarrachea	J Gen Microbiol
3584072	Nitrogen-fixing nodules induced by Agrobacterium tumefaciens harboring Rhizobium phaseoli plasmids.	Rhizobium phaseoli CFN299 forms nitrogen-fixing nodules in Phaseolus vulgaris (bean) and in Leucaena esculenta. It has three plasmids of 185, 225, and 410 kilobases. The 410-kilobase plasmid contains the nitrogenase structural genes. We have transferred these plasmids to the plasmid-free strain Agrobacterium tumefaciens GMI9023. Transconjugants containing different combinations of the R. phaseoli plasmids were obtained, and they were exhaustively purified before nodulation was assayed. Only transconjugants harboring the 410-kilobase plasmid nodulate P. vulgaris and L. esculenta. Nodules formed by all such transconjugants are able to reduce acetylene. Transconjugants containing the whole set of plasmids from CFN299 nodulate better and fix more nitrogen than the transconjugants carrying only the Sym plasmid. Microscopic analysis of nodules induced by A. tumefaciens transconjugants reveals infected cells and vascular bundles. None of the A. tumefaciens transconjugants, not even the one with the whole set of plasmids from CFN299, behaves in symbiosis like the original R. phaseoli strain; the transconjugants produce fewer nodules and have lower acetylene reduction (25% as compared to the original R. phaseoli strain) and more amyloplasts per nodule. More than 2,000 bacterial isolates from nodules of P. vulgaris and L. esculenta formed by the transconjugants were analyzed by different criteria. Not a single rhizobium could be detected. Our results show that R. phaseoli plasmids may be expressed in the A. tumefaciens background and direct the formation of effective, differentiated nodules.	1987 Jun	Martínez, E; Martínez, E; Martínez; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios; Sánchez, F; Sánchez, F; Sánchez	J Bacteriol
2882477	The complete nucleotide sequence of the glnALG operon of Escherichia coli K12.	The nucleotide sequence of the E. coli glnALG operon has been determined. The glnL (ntrB) and glnG (ntrC) genes present a high homology, at the nucleotide and aminoacid levels, with the corresponding genes of Klebsiella pneumoniae. The predicted aminoacid sequence for glutamine synthetase allowed us to locate some of the enzyme domains. The structure of this operon is discussed.	1987 Mar	Miranda-Ríos, J; Miranda-Ríos, J; Miranda-Ríos; Sánchez-Pescador, R; Sánchez-Pescador, R; Sánchez-Pescador; Urdea, M; Urdea, M; Urdea; Covarrubias, A A; Covarrubias, AA; Covarrubias	Nucleic Acids Res
24277190	Expression of nodule-specific genes in Phaseolus vulgaris L.	The identification of some nodule-specific host proteins (nodulins) from common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.), a tropical ureide-transporting legume, is described. Particularly, the existence and developmental expression of several abundant nodule-specific transcripts of P. vulgaris are shown, including leghemoglobin, nodulespecific uricase and a group that in vitro translates into a cluster of about 30 kDa products. The expression pattern of nodulins in effective (Fix(+)) nodules compared to ineffective (Fix(-)) ones is also presented. The modified expression of main nodulins observed between these nodules indicates that different levels and/or factors associated with their regulation are involved. The intracellular infection by Rhizobium as a decisive step in the induction of some P. vulgaris nodulins is discussed. 	1987 Nov	Campos, F; Campos, F; Campos; Padilla, J; Padilla, J; Padilla; Vázquez, M; Vázquez, M; Vázquez; Ortega, J L; Ortega, JL; Ortega; Enríquez, C; Enríquez, C; Enríquez; Sánchez, F; Sánchez, F; Sánchez	Plant Mol Biol
3309146	Glutamine degradation through the omega-amidase pathway in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	A glutamine transaminase activity has been identified in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and the existence of the omega-amidase activity previously described in this yeast has been confirmed. The glutamine transaminase utilizes different 2-oxo acids as substrates, including pyruvate and glyoxylate, and is regulated by the available nitrogen source. The glutamine transaminase activity decreases when lysine or glycine is added to the medium; the inhibition by lysine diminishes under microaerophilic culture conditions.	1987 Jan	Soberón, M; Soberón, M; Soberón; González, A; González, A; González	J Gen Microbiol
24276799	Nodule-specific glutamine synthetase is expressed before the onset of nitrogen fixation in Phaseolus vulgaris L.	Glutamine synthetase expression was studied in developing root-nodules of common bean with regard to the time-course of specific activity, antigen accumulation, polypeptide composition and in vitro translation products. This analysis shows that the nodule-specific GS polypeptide (GS-gamma) is detected prior to the nitrogenase acetylene-reducing activity, and that its accumulation together with that of the GS-alpha and GS-beta polypeptides vary with nodule age. GS-gamma is present in ineffective nodules, although in a lower ratio to GS-beta than in wild-type nodules. Comparisons of in vitro translated and in vivo synthesized GS polypeptides suggest no post-translational modifications. The possible factors and mechanisms involved in the regulation of expression of GS polypeptides are discussed. 	1987 Jan	Padilla, J E; Padilla, JE; Padilla; Campos, F; Campos, F; Campos; Conde, V; Conde, V; Conde; Lara, M; Lara, M; Lara; Sánchez, F; Sánchez, F; Sánchez	Plant Mol Biol
3309138	Physiological role of glutaminase activity in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The participation of glutaminase activity in glutamine degradation was studied in a wild-type strain (S288C) of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Evidence is presented that this strain has two glutaminase activities, a readily extractable form (glutaminase B) and a membrane-bound enzyme (glutaminase A). Glutaminase A and B activities could also be distinguished by their thermostability, pyruvate sensitivity and pH optimum. Glutaminase B activity was negatively modulated by some 2-oxo acids, and in vivo pyruvate accumulation inhibited this activity. A mutant strain (CN10) with an altered glutaminase B activity was isolated and partially characterized. Its glutaminase B activity was more sensitive to inhibition by pyruvate and 2-oxoglutarate than the wild type, thus resulting in inactivation of this enzyme in vivo. The physiological role of glutaminase activity is discussed with regard to the phenotype shown by the mutant strain.	1987 Jan	Soberón, M; Soberón, M; Soberón; González, A; González, A; González	J Gen Microbiol
3308639	Promoter selection by a bacterial enhancer-like activator element (BELE) in Escherichia coli.	The Escherichia coli glnA gene promoter glnAp2 is activated by an element able to act bidirectionally and at variable distance over the DNA. We demonstrate here that this activating element does not influence another promoter, 82p, adjacent to it, from which a gene is transcribed in opposite direction to glnA. Thus, although it displays a great flexibility, this element can activate selectively. The unresponsive promoter and glnAp2 are recognized by RNA polymerases complexed to two different sigma factors. Therefore, we argue that promoter selection by this element is dependent upon distinguishing the proper sigma factor.	1987	Garciarrubio, A A; Garciarrubio, AA; Garciarrubio; Covarrubias, A A; Covarrubias, AA; Covarrubias	Gene
3438252	Purification and characterization of a lectin from Phaseolus acutifolius var. latifolius.	The lectin from Phaseolus acutifolius var. latifolius has been purified to homogeneity by affinity chromatography using stroma-sephadex, gel filtration and electrofocusing. The purified lectin consists of four subunits of 21 Kd molecular mass each one with 7.4% w/w total carbohydrate. Red cells of human and animal species, are agglutinated but are not inhibited by a series of sugars. Mitogenicity and immunosuppressive activities were demonstrated. Agglutination requires magnesium and calcium ions.	1987	Vargas-Albores, F; Vargas-Albores, F; Vargas-Albores; de la Fuente, G; de la Fuente, G; de la Fuente; Agundis, C; Agundis, C; Agundis; Córdoba, F; Córdoba, F; Córdoba	Prep Biochem
3096961	Effect of L-amino acids on Mucor rouxii dimorphism.	Mucor rouxii organisms growing aerobically and exponentially on a well-defined minimal medium are able to differentiate as yeasts or as mycelia, depending on the amino acid as the nitrogen source. When certain amino acids were used as the nitrogen source, spores differentiated only as hyphae, whereas other amino acids gave rise to other morphological forms having different ratios of yeasts to hyphae. In both hyphal and yeast cultures, an aerobic metabolism was predominant, as shown by determining several metabolic parameters such as oxygen tension, glucose consumption, ethanol production, and CO2 release. A complete conversion of yeasts to hyphae was obtained by the appropriate change in the amino acid used as nitrogen source. By preparing spheroplasts from mycelial cultures and transferring them to media with amino acids that induce yeast formation, a 50% yield in the reverse transformation was achieved. A correlation between the change in pH of the medium and cell morphology was observed in different growth conditions. Decrease in the pH of the medium preceded the appearance of hyphae. Also, when the initial pH of the medium was increased, aspartate-containing cultures developed mainly as mycelia, instead of yeasts, with a corresponding decrease in the final pH.	1986 Nov	Leija, A; Leija, A; Leija; Ruiz-Herrera, J; Ruiz-Herrera, J; Ruiz-Herrera; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
2943726	Genetic and biochemical identification of the glutamate synthase structural gene in Neurospora crassa.	Neurospora crassa cells require glutamate synthase activity for growth under ammonium-limiting conditions. Despite the physiological importance of glutamate synthase, little is known about the genetics of its expression. To identify the glutamate synthase structural gene, we isolated three new mutants lacking this activity. All mutations are recessive to the wild-type allele and belong to the same complementation group as the previously described en(am)-2 (C24) mutation. Two lines of evidence indicate that en(am)-2 is the structural gene for glutamate synthase in N. crassa. The en(am)-2+ gene shows a gene dosage effect on enzyme activity, and some mutants lacking glutamate synthase activity have cross-reacting material. These data suggest that the mutations are located in the structural gene for N. crassa glutamate synthase.	1986 Sep	Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Dávila, G; Dávila, G; Dávila	J Bacteriol
3015875	Genetic rearrangements of a Rhizobium phaseoli symbiotic plasmid.	Different structural changes of the Sym plasmid were found in a Rhizobium phaseoli strain that loses its symbiotic phenotype at a high frequency. These rearrangements affected both nif genes and Tn5 mob insertions in the plasmid, and in some cases they modified the expression of the bacterium's nodulation ability. One of the rearrangements was more frequent in heat-treated cells, but was also found under standard culture conditions; other structural changes appeared to be related to the conjugal transfer of the plasmid.	1986 Aug	Soberón-Chávez, G; Soberón-Chávez, G; Soberón-Chávez; Nájera, R; Nájera, R; Nájera; Olivera, H; Olivera, H; Olivera; Segovia, L; Segovia, L; Segovia	J Bacteriol
2872202	Oxidation of Neurospora crassa glutamine synthetase.	The glutamine synthetase of Neurospora crassa, either purified or in cell extracts, was inactivated by ascorbate plus FeCl3 and by H2O2 plus FeSO4. The inactivation reaction was oxygen dependent, inhibited by MnCl2 and EDTA, and stimulated in cell extracts by sodium azide. This inactivation could also be brought about by adding NADPH to the cell extract. The alpha and beta polypeptides of the active glutamine synthetase were modified by these inactivating reactions, giving rise to two novel acidic polypeptides. These modifications were observed with the purified enzyme, with cell extracts, and under in vivo conditions in which glutamine synthetase is degraded. The modified glutamine synthetase was more susceptible to endogenous phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride-insensitive proteolytic activity, which was inhibited by MnCl2 and stimulated by EDTA. The possible physiological relevance of enzyme oxidation is discussed.	1986 Jun	Aguirre, J; Aguirre, J; Aguirre; Hansberg, W; Hansberg, W; Hansberg	J Bacteriol
16664719	Expression of Two Different Glutamine Synthetase Polypeptides during Root Development in Phaseolus vulgaris L.	Immunoprecipitation and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis analysis of the glutamine synthetase (GS) polypeptides (alpha and beta) during Phaseolus vulgaris root development shows that the alpha polypeptide is the main component of the enzyme in the embryo and in up to 5 day old roots. From 5 days on, the beta polypeptide becomes the root predominant GS monomer. The alpha/beta ratio of the in vitro translated GS polypeptides from the total polysomal RNA isolated at different root ages correlates with the alpha/beta ratio observed in the root extracts. These results suggest that the two root GS polypeptides are encoded by different mRNA species in Phaseolus vulgaris.	1986 Apr	Ortega, J L; Ortega, JL; Ortega; Campos, F; Campos, F; Campos; Sánchez, F; Sánchez, F; Sánchez; Lara, M; Lara, M; Lara	Plant Physiol
2867084	Regulation of glutamine synthesis by glycine and serine in Neurospora crassa.	The biosynthetic activities of the polypeptide subunits alpha and beta of glutamine synthetase (GS) were inhibited in vitro by glycine and serine. These amino acids inhibited the growth of a mutant strain with partial GS activity when grown on glutamate as the nitrogen source and also blocked the synthesis of the glutamine in vivo, thus demonstrating the inhibitory effect on GS activity in vivo. Glycine and serine lowered the intracellular glutamine pool and regulated GS beta synthesis. A preferential induction of synthesis of the GS beta polypeptide was observed when either of these amino acids was present in the medium. On this basis, we obtained a glycine-sensitive mutant which showed a structural alteration of the GS beta polypeptide. The double regulatory effect of either glycine or serine on glutamine synthesis may be considered an example of the regulation of glutamine synthesis by alpha-amino nitrogen. It may be a mechanism that regulates the assimilation of ammonium into glutamate versus glutamine.	1986 Jan	Hernández, G; Hernández, G; Hernández; Mora, Y; Mora, Y; Mora; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
2866224	NADP+-dependent glutamate dehydrogenase activity is impaired in mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae that lack aconitase.	A mutant of Saccharomyces cerevisiae lacking aconitase did not grow on minimal medium (MM) and had five- to tenfold less NADP+-dependent glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) activity than the wild-type, although its glutamine synthetase (GS) activity was still inducible. When this mutant was incubated with glutamate as the sole nitrogen source, the 2-oxoglutarate content rose, and the NADP+-dependent GDH activity increased. Furthermore, carbon-limited cultures showed a direct relation between NADP+-dependent GDH activity and the intracellular 2-oxoglutarate content. We propose that the low NADP+-dependent GDH activity found in the mutant was due to the lack of 2-oxoglutarate or some other intermediate of the tricarboxylic acid cycle.	1985 Oct	González, A; González, A; González; Rodríguez, L; Rodríguez, L; Rodríguez; Olivera, H; Olivera, H; Olivera; Soberón, M; Soberón, M; Soberón	J Gen Microbiol
2857167	Omega-amidase pathway in the degradation of glutamine in Neurospora crassa.	Evidence for the participation of the glutamine transaminase-omega-amidase pathway in the utilization of glutamine in Neurospora crassa was obtained. Its participation is indicated by the in vitro activities of glutamine transaminase and omega-amidase, the in vivo accumulation of alpha-ketoglutaramate when an inhibitor of transamidases is present, and the inhibition by aminooxyacetic acid and 6-diazo-5-oxo-L-norleucine of the ammonium excreted in the presence of glutamine by a mutant strain that lacks glutamate dehydrogenase and glutamate synthase.	1985 Feb	Calderón, J; Calderón, J; Calderón; Morett, E; Morett, E; Morett; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
16593543	Nitrogenase reductase: A functional multigene family in Rhizobium phaseoli.	The complete coding sequence of the nitrogenase reductase gene (nifH) is present in three different regions of a Rhizobium phaseoli symbiotic plasmid. Homology between two of the regions containing nifH coding sequences extends over 5 kilobases. These in turn share 1.3 kilobases of homology with the third region. The nucleotide sequences of the three nitrogenase reductase genes were found to be identical. Site-directed insertion mutagenesis indicated that none of the three genes is indispensable for nitrogen fixation during symbiosis with Phaseolus vulgaris. This implies that at least two of the reiterated genes can be functionally expressed.	1985 Feb	Quinto, C; Quinto, C; Quinto; De La Vega, H; De La Vega, H; De La Vega; Flores, M; Flores, M; Flores; Leemans, J; Leemans, J; Leemans; Cevallos, M A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Pardo, M A; Pardo, MA; Pardo; Azpiroz, R; Azpiroz, R; Azpiroz; De Lourdes Girard, M; De Lourdes Girard, M; De Lourdes Girard; Calva, E; Calva, E; Calva; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
2866146	Cloning of a DNA sequence that complements glutamine auxotrophy in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Glutamine (gln) requiring mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae have been isolated. They synthesize small amounts of glutamine synthetase (GS), which is more thermolabile than the enzyme from the parental strain. The gln auxotrophy was complemented in transformation experiments using an S. cerevisiae gene library constructed in the plasmid vector YEp13. The transformants were mitotically unstable and synthesized almost tenfold higher amounts of GS than wild-type cells. This activity was as thermoresistant as that from the wild-type strain. A recombinant plasmid was isolated from one of the transformants and partially mapped. Upon reintroduction into the auxotrophic strain, the transformation frequency to gln prototrophy was the same as that for the marker LEU2 gene. The evidence presented suggests that we have cloned the structural gene for GS from S. cerevisiae.	1985	González, A; González, A; González; Dávila, G; Dávila, G; Dávila; Calva, E; Calva, E; Calva	Gene
2866175	Glutamine synthetase-constitutive mutation affecting the glnALG upstream promoter of Escherichia coli.	The spontaneous gln-76 mutation of Escherichia coli (Osorio et al., Mol. Gen. Genet. 194:114-123, 1984) was previously shown to be responsible for the cis-dominant constitutive expression of the glnA gene in the absence of a glnG-glnF activator system. Nucleotide sequence analysis has now revealed that gln-76 is a single transversion T.A to A.T, an up-promoter mutation affecting the -10 region of glnAp1, the upstream promoter of the glnALG control region. Both, wild-type and gln-76 DNA control regions were cloned into the promoter-probe plasmid pKO1. Galactokinase activity determinations of cells carrying the fused plasmids showed 10-fold more effective expression mediated by gln-76 than by the glnA wild-type control region. Primer extension experiments with RNA from strains carrying the gln-76 control region indicated that the transcription initiation sites were the same in both the gln-76 mutant and the wild type.	1985 Dec	León, P; León, P; León; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Garciarrubio, A; Garciarrubio, A; Garciarrubio; Bastarrachea, F; Bastarrachea, F; Bastarrachea; Covarrubias, A A; Covarrubias, AA; Covarrubias	J Bacteriol
2865194	Nucleotide sequence of the glnA-glnL intercistronic region of Escherichia coli.	The nucleotide (nt) sequence of a 682-bp fragment containing the 3' end of the glnA gene, the region between the glnA and glnL genes, and the 5' end of the glnL gene from Escherichia coli was determined. This segment contains the region coding for the last 107 amino acids (aa) of glutamine synthetase, including the adenylylation site of this enzyme. The analysis of this sequence revealed two REP sequences, a Rho-independent terminator, the putative glnL promoter and the possible binding site for the glnG product, NRI.	1985	Rocha, M; Rocha, M; Rocha; Vázquez, M; Vázquez, M; Vázquez; Garciarrubio, A; Garciarrubio, A; Garciarrubio; Covarrubias, A A; Covarrubias, AA; Covarrubias	Gene
16663942	Heterogeneity of Glutamine Synthetase Polypeptides in Phaseolus vulgaris L.	Glutamine synthetases from roots, nodules, and leaves of Phaseolus vulgaris L. have been purified to homogeneity and their polypeptide composition determined.The leaf enzyme is composed of six polypeptides. The cytosolic fraction contains two 43,000 dalton polypeptides and the chloroplastic enzyme is formed by four 45,000 dalton polypeptides. Root glutamine synthetase consists only of the same two polypeptides of 43,000 dalton that are present in the leaf enzyme. The nodule enzyme is formed by two polypeptides of 43,000 dalton, one is common to the leaf and root enzyme but the other is specific for N(2)-fixing nodule tissue. The two glutamine synthetase forms of the nodule contain a different proportion of the 43,000 dalton polypeptides.	1984 Dec	Lara, M; Lara, M; Lara; Porta, H; Porta, H; Porta; Padilla, J; Padilla, J; Padilla; Folch, J; Folch, J; Folch; Sánchez, F; Sánchez, F; Sánchez	Plant Physiol
6325385	Rhizobium phaseoli symbiotic mutants with transposon Tn5 insertions.	Rhizobium phaseoli CFN42 DNA was mutated by random insertion of Tn5 from suicide plasmid pJB4JI to obtain independently arising strains that were defective in symbiosis with Phaseolus vulgaris but grew normally outside the plant. When these mutants were incubated with the plant, one did not initiate visible nodule tissue (Nod-), seven led to slow nodule development (Ndv), and two led to superficially normal early nodule development but lacked symbiotic nitrogenase activity (Sna-). The Nod- mutant lacked the large transmissible indigenous plasmid pCFN42d that has homology to Klebsiella pneumoniae nitrogenase (nif) genes. The other mutants had normal plasmid content. In the two Sna- mutants and one Ndv mutant, Tn5 had inserted into plasmid pCFN42d outside the region of nif homology. The insertions of the other Ndv mutants were apparently in the chromosome. They were not in plasmids detected on agarose gels, and, in contrast to insertions on indigenous plasmids, they were transmitted in crosses to wild-type strain CFN42 at the same frequency as auxotrophic markers and with the same enhancement of transmission by conjugation plasmid R68.45. In these Ndv mutants the Tn5 insertions were the same as or very closely linked to mutations causing the Ndv phenotype. However, in two mutants with Tn5 insertions on plasmid pCFN42d, an additional mutation on the same plasmid, rather than Tn5, was responsible for the Sna- or Ndv phenotype. When plasmid pJB4JI was transferred to two other R. phaseoli strains, analysis of symbiotic mutants was complicated by Tn5-containing deleted forms of pJB4JI that were stably maintained.	1984 Apr	Noel, K D; Noel, KD; Noel; Sanchez, A; Sanchez, A; Sanchez; Fernandez, L; Fernandez, L; Fernandez; Leemans, J; Leemans, J; Leemans; Cevallos, M A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	J Bacteriol
6743792	A generalized reaction diffusion model for spatial structure formed by motile cells.	A non-linear stability analysis using a multi-scale perturbation procedure is carried out on a model of a generalized reaction diffusion mechanism which involves only a single equation but which nevertheless exhibits bifurcation to non-uniform states. The patterns generated by this model by variation in a parameter related to the scalar dimensions of domain of definition, indicate its capacity to represent certain key morphogenetic features of multicellular systems formed by motile cells.	1984	Ochoa, F L; Ochoa, FL; Ochoa	Biosystems
22096811	Glutamine requirement for aerial mycelium growth in Neurospora crassa.	Five amino acids are accumulated during vegetative growth of Neurospora crassa, particularly.during the prestationary growth phase. Alanine, glutamine, glutamate, arginine and ornithine.comprised over 80% of the total amino acid pool in the mycelium. Amino acid pools of different amino acid auxotrophs were followed during the partial transformation of a mycelial mat into an aerial mycelium. The mycelial mat under starvation and in direct contact with air rapidly formed aerial mycelium, which produced thereafter a burst of conidia. During this process,glutamine and alanine in the mycelial mat were consumed more rapidly than other amino acids;in the growing aerial mycelium, glutamate and glutamine were particularly accumulated. Of the amino acids that were initially accumulated in the mycelial mat, only a high glutamine pool was required for aerial mycelium growth induced by starvation. This requirement for glutamine could not be satisfied by a mixture of the amino compounds that are synthesized via glutamine amidotransferase reactions. It is proposed that glutamine serves as a nitrogen carrier from the mycelial mat to the growing aerial mycelium.	1984 Jul	Cárdenas, M E; Cárdenas, ME; Cárdenas; Hansberg, W; Hansberg, W; Hansberg	J Gen Microbiol
22096812	Glutamine metabolism during aerial mycelium growth of Neurospora crassa.	During vegetative growth, glutamine is accumulated in the mycelium of Neurospora crassa. This high pool of glutamine seems to be required for aerial mycelium growth. Enzymes responsible for the synthesis and catabolism of glutamine were measured before and during the partial transformation of a mycelial mat into aerial mycelium. In the transforming mycelial mat,considerable activities of the biosynthetic NADP-glutamate dehydrogenase and glutamine synthetase (predominantly β polypeptide) and also some activity of glutamate synthase were observed. In the aerial mycelium, glutamine synthetase (predominantly β polypeptide) was detected, but very low activities of NADP-glutamate dehydrogenase and glutamate mycelium could derive from glutamine. No glutaminase activity could be detected. It is suggested that glutamate is formed through the activities of the glutamine transaminase-ω -amidase pathway and another transaminase. High activities of glutamine and alanine transaminases were observed in the aerial mycelium. These results are discussed in terms of the possible role of glutamine as a nitrogen carrier from the mycelium to the growing aerial hyphae.	1984 Jul	Cárdenas, M E; Cárdenas, ME; Cárdenas; Hansberg, W; Hansberg, W; Hansberg	J Gen Microbiol
6139363	Genetic and biochemical characterization of glutamine synthetase from Neurospora crassa glutamine auxotrophs and their revertants.	In this paper we present the isolation and characterization of glutamine auxotrophs of Neurospora crassa and their revertants. The results show that although various enrichment procedures were used, we found only two types of auxotrophs. Genetic crosses performed between the different mutants showed that the mutations responsible for their phenotypes were highly linked and probably affected the same gene. The biochemical characterization of the glutamine synthetase polypeptides of the different mutants showed that both types contained the alpha monomer. However, in place of the normal beta monomer, each type had a new polypeptide differing from normal beta either in its molecular weight or in its isoelectric point. On the other hand, the revertants had only the alpha monomer and were capable of growing without glutamine. On the basis of these data, we propose that the lack of glutamine synthetase activity in the auxotrophs is due to the interaction of the altered beta with the alpha monomer, and as a consequence the alpha monomer of the revertants regains its activity because of the absence of the altered beta.	1983 Dec	Dávila, G; Dávila, G; Dávila; Brom, S; Brom, S; Brom; Mora, Y; Mora, Y; Mora; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
6134713	Neurospora crassa mutant impaired in glutamine regulation.	The final products of the catabolism of arginine that can be utilized as nitrogen sources by Neurospora crassa are ammonium, glutamic acid, and glutamine. Of these compounds, only glutamine represses arginase and glutamine synthetase. We report here the isolation and characterization of a mutant of N. crassa whose arginase, glutamine synthetase, and amino acid accumulations are resistant to glutamine repression (glnI). This mutant has a greater capacity than the wild type (glns) to accumulate most of the arginine and some of the glutamine in osmotically sensitive compartments while growing exponentially. Nonetheless, the major part of the glutamine remains soluble and metabolically available for repression. We propose that the lower repression of glutamine synthetase by glutamine in this mutant could be a necessary condition for sustaining the higher flow of nitrogen for the accumulation of amino acids observed in ammonium excess and that, if glutamine is the nitrogen signal that regulates the arginine accumulation of the vesicle, the glnr mutant has also escaped this control. Finally, in the glnr mutant, some glutamine resynthesis is necessary for arginine biosynthesis and accumulation.	1983 Jul	González, A; González, A; González; Tenorio, M; Tenorio, M; Tenorio; Vaca, G; Vaca, G; Vaca; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
6300039	Nitrogen source regulates glutamate dehydrogenase NADP synthesis in Neurospora crassa.	Neurospora crassa glutamate dehydrogenase-NADP (EC 1.3.1.3) has a higher activity when mycelium is grown on ammonium or nitrate as nitrogen source than when grown on glutamate or glutamine. Quantitative immunoelectrophoresis established that, under all conditions, enzyme activity corresponded to enzyme concentration. Isotope incorporation studies demonstrated that the nitrogen source exerts its regulation at the level of de novo enzyme synthesis.	1983 Apr	Hernández, G; Hernández, G; Hernández; Sánchez-Pescador, R; Sánchez-Pescador, R; Sánchez-Pescador; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
24264155	Appearance of a novel form of plant glutamine synthetase during nodule development in Phaseolus vulgaris L.	The activities of glutamine synthetase (GS), nitrogenase and leghaemoglobin were measured during nodule development in Phaseolus vulgaris infected with wild-type or two non-fixing (Fix(-)) mutants of Rhizobium phaseoli. The large increase in GS activity which was observed during nodulation with the wild-type rhizobial strain occurred concomitantly with the detection and increase in activity of nitrogenase and the amount of leghaemoglobin. Moreover, this increase in GS was found to be due entirely to the appearance of a novel form of the enzyme (GSn1) in the nodule. The activity of the form (GSn2) similar to the root enzyme (GSr) remained constant throughout the experiment. In nodules produced by infection with the two mutant strains of Rhizobium phaseoli (JL15 and JL19) only trace amounts of GSn1 and leghaemoglobin were detected. 	1983 Apr	Lara, M; Lara, M; Lara; Cullimore, J V; Cullimore, JV; Cullimore; Lea, P J; Lea, PJ; Lea; Miflin, B J; Miflin, BJ; Miflin; Johnston, A W; Johnston, AW; Johnston; Lamb, J W; Lamb, JW; Lamb	Planta
6120927	Physiology of ammonium assimilation in Neurospora crassa.	In Neurospora crassa the assimilation of high and low concentrations of ammonium occurs by two different pathways. When the fungi are growing exponentially on ammonium excess, this compound is fixed by a glutamic dehydrogenase and an octameric glutamine synthetase (GS). The synthesis of this GS polypeptide (beta) is regulated by the nitrogen source present in excess; being higher on glutamate, intermediate on ammonium, and lower on glutamine. When N. crassa is growing in fed-batch ammonium-limited cultures a different polypeptide of GS (alpha), arranged as a tetramer, is synthesized. In both conditions synthesis in vivo correlates with the data obtained with an in vitro translation system primed with N. crassa RNA. This different expression of alpha and beta GS polypeptides was also observed when the cultures were shifted from excess to low nitrogen, and vice versa. By agarose gel electrophoresis in the presence of methylmercury hydroxide, some separation of different mRNAs that direct the in vitro synthesis of alpha and beta GS polypeptides has been accomplished. Data are presented that establish the operation of the tetrameric alpha GS and of glutamate synthase in the assimilation of ammonium in low concentration.	1982 Apr	Lara, M; Lara, M; Lara; Blanco, L; Blanco, L; Blanco; Campomanes, M; Campomanes, M; Campomanes; Calva, E; Calva, E; Calva; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
6247284	Different polypeptide composition of two human rotavirus types.	Human rotaviruses, which are placed into two groups according to their ribonucleic acid patterns obtained by gel electrophoresis, were characterized both by polypeptide components from purified virions and by polypeptides translated from their denatured ribonucleic acids in rabbit reticulocyte lysates. Viruses assigned to different groups differed in the electrophoretic migration of the second largest of the polypeptides which compose the inner shell; polypeptides that had been synthetized in vitro from ribonucleic acid from each group showed this same difference, thus indicating that this is due to the genomic composition. This study suggests that there are differences in the third largest polypeptide of the inner shell and also in the three smaller polypeptides composing the outer shell. We also demonstrated that there are differences in genomic and polypeptide compositions between simian (SA11) and calf (Nebraska calf diarrhea virus) rotaviruses grown in tissue culture and human rotaviruses.	1980 Apr	Espejo, R; Espejo, R; Espejo; Martínez, E; Martínez, E; Martínez; López, S; López, S; López; Muñoz, O; Muñoz, O; Muñoz	Infect Immun
34791964	Protein lysine acetylation and its role in different human pathologies: a proteomic approach.	Lysine acetylation is a reversible post-translational modification (PTM) regulated through the action of specific types of enzymes: lysine acetyltransferases (KATs) and lysine deacetylases (HDACs), in addition to bromodomains, which are a group of conserved domains which identify acetylated lysine residues, several of the players in the process of protein acetylation, including enzymes and bromodomain-containing proteins, have been related to the progression of several diseases. The combination of high-resolution mass spectrometry-based proteomics, and immunoprecipitation to enrich acetylated peptides has contributed in recent years to expand the knowledge about this PTM described initially in histones and nuclear proteins, and is currently reported in more than 5000 human proteins, that are regulated by this PTM.	2021 Nov	Morales-Tarré, Orlando; Morales-Tarré, O; Morales-Tarré; Alonso-Bastida, Ramiro; Alonso-Bastida, R; Alonso-Bastida; Arcos-Encarnación, Bolivar; Arcos-Encarnación, B; Arcos-Encarnación; Pérez-Martínez, Leonor; Pérez-Martínez, L; Pérez-Martínez; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara	Expert Rev Proteomics
34858375	Introducing a Novel, Broad Host Range Temperate Phage Family Infecting <i>Rhizobium leguminosarum</i> and Beyond.	Temperate phages play important roles in bacterial communities but have been largely overlooked, particularly in non-pathogenic bacteria. In rhizobia the presence of temperate phages has the potential to have significant ecological impacts but few examples have been described. Here we characterize a novel group of 5 <i>Rhizobium leguminosarum</i> prophages, capable of sustaining infections across a broad host range within their host genus. Genome comparisons identified further putative prophages infecting multiple <i>Rhizobium</i> species isolated globally, revealing a wider family of 10 temperate phages including one previously described lytic phage, RHEph01, which appears to have lost the ability to form lysogens. Phylogenetic discordance between prophage and host phylogenies suggests a history of active mobilization between <i>Rhizobium</i> lineages. Genome comparisons revealed conservation of gene content and order, with the notable exception of an approximately 5 kb region of hypervariability, containing almost exclusively hypothetical genes. Additionally, several horizontally acquired genes are present across the group, including a putative antirepressor present only in the RHEph01 genome, which may explain its apparent inability to form lysogens. In summary, both phenotypic and genomic comparisons between members of this group of phages reveals a clade of viruses with a long history of mobilization within and between <i>Rhizobium</i> species.	2021	Ford, Sam; Ford, S; Ford; Moeskjær, Sara; Moeskjær, S; Moeskjær; Young, Peter; Young, P; Young; Santamaría, Rosa I; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Harrison, Ellie; Harrison, E; Harrison	Front Microbiol
34803935	Mathematical Models of Plasmid Population Dynamics.	With plasmid-mediated antibiotic resistance thriving and threatening to become a serious public health problem, it is paramount to increase our understanding of the forces that enable the spread and maintenance of drug resistance genes encoded in mobile genetic elements. The relevance of plasmids as vehicles for the dissemination of antibiotic resistance genes, in addition to the extensive use of plasmid-derived vectors for biotechnological and industrial purposes, has promoted the in-depth study of the molecular mechanisms controlling multiple aspects of a plasmids' life cycle. This body of experimental work has been paralleled by the development of a wealth of mathematical models aimed at understanding the interplay between transmission, replication, and segregation, as well as their consequences in the ecological and evolutionary dynamics of plasmid-bearing bacterial populations. In this review, we discuss theoretical models of plasmid dynamics that span from the molecular mechanisms of plasmid partition and copy-number control occurring at a cellular level, to their consequences in the population dynamics of complex microbial communities. We conclude by discussing future directions for this exciting research topic.	2021	Hernández-Beltrán, José Carlos Ramón; Hernández-Beltrán, JCR; Hernández-Beltrán; San Millán, Alvaro; San Millán, A; San Millán; Fuentes-Hernández, Ayari; Fuentes-Hernández, A; Fuentes-Hernández; Peña-Miller, Rafael; Peña-Miller, R; Peña-Miller	Front Microbiol
34610117	Plant-microbe-microbe interactions influence the faba bean nodule colonization by diverse endophytic bacteria.	Legume root nodules harbor rhizobia and other non-nodulating endophytes known as nodule-associated bacteria (NAB) whose role in the legume symbiosis is still unknown. We analysed the genetic diversity of 34 NAB isolates obtained from the root nodules of faba bean grown under various soil conditions in Egypt using 16S rRNA and concatenated sequences of three housekeeping genes. All isolates were identified as members of the family Enterobacteriaceae belonging to the genera Klebsiella, Enterobacter and Raoultella. We identified nine enterobacterial genospecies, most of which have not been previously reported as NAB. All isolated strains harbored nifH gene sequences and most of them possessed plant growth-promoting (PGP) traits. Upon co-inoculation with an N2 fixing rhizobium (Rlv NGB-FR128), two strains (Enterobacter sichanensis NGB-FR97 and Klebsiella variicola NGB-FR116) significantly increased nodulation, growth and N-uptake of faba bean plants over the single treatments or the uninoculated control. The presence of these enterobacteria in nodules was significantly affected by the host plant genotype, symbiotic rhizobium genotype and endophyte genotype, indicating that the nodule colonization process is regulated by plant-microbe-microbe interactions. This study emphasizes the importance of nodule-associated enterobacteria and suggests their potential role in improving the effectiveness of rhizobial inoculants.	2021 10	Youseif, Sameh H; Youseif, SH; Youseif; Abd El-Megeed, Fayrouz H; Abd El-Megeed, FH; Abd El-Megeed; Abdelaal, Ali S; Abdelaal, AS; Abdelaal; Ageez, Amr; Ageez, A; Ageez; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	FEMS Microbiol Ecol
34777287	Transcriptomic Responses of <i>Rhizobium phaseoli</i> to Root Exudates Reflect Its Capacity to Colonize Maize and Common Bean in an Intercropping System.	Corn and common bean have been cultivated together in Mesoamerica for thousands of years in an intercropping system called "milpa," where the roots are intermingled, favoring the exchange of their microbiota, including symbionts such as rhizobia. In this work, we studied the genomic expression of <i>Rhizobium phaseoli</i> Ch24-10 (by RNA-seq) after a 2-h treatment in the presence of root exudates of maize and bean grown in monoculture and milpa system under hydroponic conditions. In bean exudates, rhizobial genes for nodulation and degradation of aromatic compounds were induced; while in maize, a response of genes for degradation of mucilage and ferulic acid was observed, as well as those for the transport of sugars, dicarboxylic acids and iron. Ch24-10 transcriptomes in milpa resembled those of beans because they both showed high expression of nodulation genes; some genes that were expressed in corn exudates were also induced by the intercropping system, especially those for the degradation of ferulic acid and pectin. Beans grown in milpa system formed nitrogen-fixing nodules similar to monocultured beans; therefore, the presence of maize did not interfere with <i>Rhizobium</i>-bean symbiosis. Genes for the metabolism of sugars and amino acids, flavonoid and phytoalexin tolerance, and a T3SS were expressed in both monocultures and milpa system, which reveals the adaptive capacity of rhizobia to colonize both legumes and cereals. Transcriptional fusions of the <i>putA</i> gene, which participates in proline metabolism, and of a gene encoding a polygalacturonase were used to validate their participation in plant-microbe interactions. We determined the enzymatic activity of carbonic anhydrase whose gene was also overexpressed in response to root exudates.	2021	Aguirre-Noyola, José Luis; Aguirre-Noyola, JL; Aguirre-Noyola; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Santiago-Martínez, Michel Geovanni; Santiago-Martínez, MG; Santiago-Martínez; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Front Microbiol
34745182	CdgC, a Cyclic-di-GMP Diguanylate Cyclase of <i>Azospirillum baldaniorum</i> Is Involved in Internalization to Wheat Roots.	<i>Azospirillum baldaniorum</i> is a plant growth-promoting rhizobacterium (PGPR) capable of fixing nitrogen, the synthesis of several phytohormones including indole-acetic acid, and induction of plant defenses against phytopathogens. To establish a successful and prolonged bacteria-plant interaction, <i>A. baldaniorum</i> can form biofilms, bacterial communities embedded in a self-made matrix formed by extracellular polymeric substances which provide favorable conditions for survival. A key modulator of biofilm formation is the second messenger bis-(3'-5')-cyclic-dimeric-GMP (c-di-GMP), which is synthesized by diguanylate cyclases (DGC) and degraded by specific phosphodiesterases. In this study, we analyzed the contribution of a previously uncharacterized diguanylate cyclase designated CdgC, to biofilm formation and bacterial-plant interaction dynamics. We showed that CdgC is capable of altering c-di-GMP levels in a heterologous host, strongly supporting its function as a DGC. The deletion of <i>cdgC</i> resulted in alterations in the three-dimensional structure of biofilms in a nitrogen-source dependent manner. CdgC was required for optimal colonization of wheat roots. Since we also observed that CdgC played an important role in exopolysaccharide production, we propose that this signaling protein activates a physiological response that results in the strong attachment of bacteria to the roots, ultimately contributing to an optimal bacterium-plant interaction. Our results demonstrate that the ubiquitous second messenger c-di-GMP is a key factor in promoting plant colonization by the PGPR <i>A. baldaniorum</i> by allowing proficient internalization in wheat roots. Understanding the molecular basis of PGPR-plant interactions will enable the design of better biotechnological strategies of agro-industrial interest.	2021	Sierra Cacho, Daniel; Sierra Cacho, D; Sierra Cacho; Zamorano Sánchez, David S; Zamorano Sánchez, DS; Zamorano Sánchez; Xiqui-Vázquez, Maria Luisa; Xiqui-Vázquez, ML; Xiqui-Vázquez; Viruega Góngora, Víctor Iván; Viruega Góngora, VI; Viruega Góngora; Ramírez-Mata, Alberto; Ramírez-Mata, A; Ramírez-Mata; Baca, Beatriz E; Baca, BE; Baca	Front Plant Sci
34626346	Exploring the environmental traits and applications of Klebsiella variicola.	Klebsiella variicola has been found in various natural niches, alone or in association with other bacteria, and causes diseases in animals and plants with important economic and environmental impacts. K. variicola has the capacity to fix nitrogen in the rhizosphere and soil; produces indole acetic acid, acetoin, and ammonia; and dissolves phosphorus and potassium, which play an important role in plant growth promotion and nutrition. Some members of K. variicola have properties such as halotolerance and alkalotolerance, conferring an evolutionary advantage. In the environmental protection, K. variicola can be used in the wastewater treatment, biodegradation, and bioremediation of polluted soil, either alone or in association with other organisms. In addition, it has the potential to carry out industrial processes in the food and pharmaceutical industries, like the production of maltose and glucose by the catalysis of debranching unmodified oligosaccharides by the pullulanase enzyme. Finally, this bacterium has the ability to transform chemical energy into electrical energy, such as a biocatalyst, which could be useful in the near future. These properties show that K. variicola should be considered an eco-friendly bacterium with hopeful technological promise. In this review, we explore the most significant aspects of K. variicola and highlight its potential applications in environmental and biotechnological processes.	2021 Dec	Duran-Bedolla, Josefina; Duran-Bedolla, J; Duran-Bedolla; Garza-Ramos, Ulises; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos; Rodríguez-Medina, Nadia; Rodríguez-Medina, N; Rodríguez-Medina; Aguilar Vera, Alejandro; Aguilar Vera, A; Aguilar Vera; Barrios-Camacho, Humberto; Barrios-Camacho, H; Barrios-Camacho	Braz J Microbiol
34043790	Inferring Genome-Wide Correlations of Mutation Fitness Effects between Populations.	The effect of a mutation on fitness may differ between populations depending on environmental and genetic context, but little is known about the factors that underlie such differences. To quantify genome-wide correlations in mutation fitness effects, we developed a novel concept called a joint distribution of fitness effects (DFE) between populations. We then proposed a new statistic w to measure the DFE correlation between populations. Using simulation, we showed that inferring the DFE correlation from the joint allele frequency spectrum is statistically precise and robust. Using population genomic data, we inferred DFE correlations of populations in humans, Drosophila melanogaster, and wild tomatoes. In these species, we found that the overall correlation of the joint DFE was inversely related to genetic differentiation. In humans and D. melanogaster, deleterious mutations had a lower DFE correlation than tolerated mutations, indicating a complex joint DFE. Altogether, the DFE correlation can be reliably inferred, and it offers extensive insight into the genetics of population divergence.	2021 Sep	Huang, Xin; Huang, X; Huang; Fortier, Alyssa Lyn; Fortier, AL; Fortier; Coffman, Alec J; Coffman, AJ; Coffman; Struck, Travis J; Struck, TJ; Struck; Irby, Megan N; Irby, MN; Irby; James, Jennifer E; James, JE; James; León-Burguete, José E; León-Burguete, JE; León-Burguete; Ragsdale, Aaron P; Ragsdale, AP; Ragsdale; Gutenkunst, Ryan N; Gutenkunst, RN; Gutenkunst	Mol Biol Evol
34189708	Pseudocrossidium replicatum (Taylor) R.H. Zander is a fully desiccation-tolerant moss that expresses an inducible molecular mechanism in response to severe abiotic stress.	The moss Pseudocrossidium replicatum is a desiccation-tolerant species that uses an inducible system to withstand severe abiotic stress in both protonemal and gametophore tissues. Desiccation tolerance (DT) is the ability of cells to recover from an air-dried state. Here, the moss Pseudocrossidium replicatum was identified as a fully desiccation-tolerant (FDT) species. Its gametophores rapidly lost more than 90% of their water content when exposed to a low-humidity atmosphere [23% relative humidity (RH)], but abscisic acid (ABA) pretreatment diminished the final water loss after equilibrium was reached. P. replicatum gametophores maintained good maximum photosystem II (PSII) efficiency (Fv/Fm) for up to two hours during slow dehydration; however, ABA pretreatment induced a faster decrease in the Fv/Fm. ABA also induced a faster recovery of the Fv/Fm after rehydration. Protein synthesis inhibitor treatment before dehydration hampered the recovery of the Fv/Fm when the gametophores were rehydrated after desiccation, suggesting the presence of an inducible protective mechanism that is activated in response to abiotic stress. This observation was also supported by accumulation of soluble sugars in gametophores exposed to ABA or NaCl. Exogenous ABA treatment delayed the germination of P. replicatum spores and induced morphological changes in protonemal cells that resembled brachycytes. Transcriptome analyses revealed the presence of an inducible molecular mechanism in P. replicatum protonemata that was activated in response to dehydration. This study is the first RNA-Seq study of the protonemal tissues of an FDT moss. Our results suggest that P. replicatum is an FDT moss equipped with an inducible molecular response that prepares this species for severe abiotic stress and that ABA plays an important role in this response.	2021 Nov	Ríos-Meléndez, Selma; Ríos-Meléndez, S; Ríos-Meléndez; Valadez-Hernández, Emmanuel; Valadez-Hernández, E; Valadez-Hernández; Delgadillo, Claudio; Delgadillo, C; Delgadillo; Luna-Guevara, Maria L; Luna-Guevara, ML; Luna-Guevara; Martínez-Núñez, Mario A; Martínez-Núñez, MA; Martínez-Núñez; Sánchez-Pérez, Mishael; Sánchez-Pérez, M; Sánchez-Pérez; Martínez-Y-Pérez, José L; Martínez-Y-Pérez, JL; Martínez-Y-Pérez; Arroyo-Becerra, Analilia; Arroyo-Becerra, A; Arroyo-Becerra; Cárdenas, Luis; Cárdenas, L; Cárdenas; Bibbins-Martínez, Martha; Bibbins-Martínez, M; Bibbins-Martínez; Maldonado-Mendoza, Ignacio E; Maldonado-Mendoza, IE; Maldonado-Mendoza; Villalobos-López, Miguel Angel; Villalobos-López, MA; Villalobos-López	Plant Mol Biol
33391198	A <i>Klebsiella variicola</i> Plasmid Confers Hypermucoviscosity-Like Phenotype and Alters Capsule Production and Virulence.	Hypermucoviscosity (hmv) is a capsule-associated phenotype usually linked with hypervirulent <i>Klebsiella pneumoniae</i> strains. The key components of this phenotype are the RmpADC proteins contained in non-transmissible plasmids identified and studied in <i>K. pneumoniae</i>. <i>Klebsiella variicola</i> is closely related to <i>K. pneumoniae</i> and recently has been identified as an emergent human pathogen. <i>K. variicol</i>a normally contains plasmids, some of them carrying antibiotic resistance and virulence genes. Previously, we described a <i>K. variicola</i> clinical isolate showing an hmv-like phenotype that harbors a 343-kb pKV8917 plasmid. Here, we investigated whether pKV8917 plasmid carried by <i>K. variicola</i> 8917 is linked with the hmv-like phenotype and its contribution to virulence. We found that curing the 343-kb pKV8917 plasmid caused the loss of hmv, a reduction in capsular polysaccharide (<i>P</i> < 0.001) and virulence. In addition, pKV8917 was successfully transferred to <i>Escherichia coli</i> and <i>K. variicola</i> strains via conjugation. Notably, when pKV8917 was transferred to <i>K. variicola</i>, the transconjugants displayed an hmv-like phenotype, and capsule production and virulence increased; these phenotypes were not observed in the <i>E. coli</i> transconjugants. These data suggest that the pKV8917 plasmid carries novel hmv and capsule determinants. Whole-plasmid sequencing and analysis revealed that pKV8917 does not contain <i>rmpADC</i>/<i>rmpA2</i> genes; thus, an alternative mechanism was searched. The 343-kb plasmid contains an IncFIB backbone and shares a region of ∼150 kb with a 99% identity and 49% coverage with a virulence plasmid from hypervirulent <i>K. variicola</i> and multidrug-resistant <i>K. pneumoniae</i>. The pKV8917-unique region harbors a cellulose biosynthesis cluster (<i>bcs</i>), fructose- and sucrose-specific (<i>fru/scr</i>) phosphotransferase systems, and the transcriptional regulators <i>araC</i> and <i>iclR</i>, respectively, involved in membrane permeability. The hmv-like phenotype has been identified more frequently, and recent evidence supports the existence of <i>rmpADC</i>/<i>rmpA2</i>-independent hmv-like pathways in this bacterial genus.	2020	Rodríguez-Medina, Nadia; Rodríguez-Medina, N; Rodríguez-Medina; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; De la Cruz, Miguel Angel; De la Cruz, MA; De la Cruz; Ares, Miguel Angel; Ares, MA; Ares; Valdovinos-Torres, Humberto; Valdovinos-Torres, H; Valdovinos-Torres; Silva-Sánchez, Jesús; Silva-Sánchez, J; Silva-Sánchez; Lozano-Aguirre, Luis; Lozano-Aguirre, L; Lozano-Aguirre; Martínez-Barnetche, Jesús; Martínez-Barnetche, J; Martínez-Barnetche; Andrade, Veronica; Andrade, V; Andrade; Garza-Ramos, Ulises; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos	Front Microbiol
33320440	We and herbivores eat endophytes.	Health depends on the diet and a vegetal diet promotes health by providing fibres, vitamins and diverse metabolites. Remarkably, plants may also provide microbes. Fungi and bacteria that reside inside plant tissues (endophytes) seem better protected to survive digestion; thus, we investigated the reported evidence on the endophytic origin of some members of the gut microbiota in animals such as panda, koala, rabbits and tortoises and several herbivore insects. Data examined here showed that some members of the herbivore gut microbiota are common plant microbes, which derived to become stable microbiota in some cases. Endophytes may contribute to plant fibre or antimetabolite degradation and synthesis of metabolites with the plethora of enzymatic activities that they display; some may have practical applications, for example, Lactobacillus plantarum found in the intestinal tract, plants and in fermented food is used as a probiotic that may defend animals against bacterial and viral infections as other endophytic-enteric bacteria do. Clostridium that is an endophyte and a gut bacterium has remarkable capabilities to degrade cellulose by having cellulosomes that may be considered the most efficient nanomachines. Cellulose degradation is a challenge in animal digestion and for biofuel production. Other endophytic-enteric bacteria may have cellulases, pectinases, xylanases, tannases, proteases, nitrogenases and other enzymatic capabilities that may be attractive for biotechnological developments, indeed many endophytes are used to promote plant growth. Here, a cycle of endophytic-enteric-soil-endophytic microbes is proposed which has relevance for health and comprises the fate of animal faeces as natural microbial inoculants for plants that constitute bacterial sources for animal guts.	2021 07	Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Aguirre-Noyola, José Luis; Aguirre-Noyola, JL; Aguirre-Noyola; Bustamante-Brito, Rafael; Bustamante-Brito, R; Bustamante-Brito; González-Román, Pilar; González-Román, P; González-Román; Hernández-Oaxaca, Diana; Hernández-Oaxaca, D; Hernández-Oaxaca; Higareda-Alvear, Víctor; Higareda-Alvear, V; Higareda-Alvear; Montes-Carreto, Leslie M; Montes-Carreto, LM; Montes-Carreto; Martínez-Romero, Julio César; Martínez-Romero, JC; Martínez-Romero; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis Eduardo; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas	Microb Biotechnol
33260894	Haloadaptative Responses of <i>Aspergillus sydowii</i> to Extreme Water Deprivation: Morphology, Compatible Solutes, and Oxidative Stress at NaCl Saturation.	Water activity (a<sub>w</sub>) is critical for microbial growth, as it is severely restricted at a<sub>w</sub> < 0.90. Saturating NaCl concentrations (~5.0 M) induce extreme water deprivation (a<sub>w</sub> ≅ 0.75) and cellular stress responses. Halophilic fungi have cellular adaptations that enable osmotic balance and ionic/oxidative stress prevention to grow at high salinity. Here we studied the morphology, osmolyte synthesis, and oxidative stress defenses of the halophile <i>Aspergillus sydowii</i> EXF-12860 at 1.0 M and 5.13 M NaCl. Colony growth, pigmentation, exudate, and spore production were inhibited at NaCl-saturated media. Additionally, hyphae showed unpolarized growth, lower diameter, and increased septation, multicellularity and branching compared to optimal NaCl concentration. Trehalose, mannitol, arabitol, erythritol, and glycerol were produced in the presence of both 1.0 M and 5.13 M NaCl. Exposing <i>A. sydowii</i> cells to 5.13 M NaCl resulted in oxidative stress evidenced by an increase in antioxidant enzymes and lipid peroxidation biomarkers. Also, genes involved in cellular antioxidant defense systems were upregulated. This is the most comprehensive study that investigates the micromorphology and the adaptative cellular response of different non-enzymatic and enzymatic oxidative stress biomarkers in halophilic filamentous fungi.	2020 Nov	Jiménez-Gómez, Irina; Jiménez-Gómez, I; Jiménez-Gómez; Valdés-Muñoz, Gisell; Valdés-Muñoz, G; Valdés-Muñoz; Moreno-Perlin, Tonatiuh; Moreno-Perlin, T; Moreno-Perlin; Mouriño-Pérez, Rosa R; Mouriño-Pérez, RR; Mouriño-Pérez; Sánchez-Carbente, María Del Rayo; Sánchez-Carbente, MDR; Sánchez-Carbente; Folch-Mallol, Jorge Luis; Folch-Mallol, JL; Folch-Mallol; Pérez-Llano, Yordanis; Pérez-Llano, Y; Pérez-Llano; Gunde-Cimerman, Nina; Gunde-Cimerman, N; Gunde-Cimerman; Sánchez, Nilda Del C; Sánchez, NDC; Sánchez; Batista-García, Ramón Alberto; Batista-García, RA; Batista-García	J Fungi (Basel)
32989088	Increased c-di-GMP Levels Lead to the Production of Alginates of High Molecular Mass in Azotobacter vinelandii.	<i>Azotobacter vinelandii</i> produces the linear exopolysaccharide alginate, a compound of significant biotechnological importance. The biosynthesis of alginate in <i>A. vinelandii</i> and <i>Pseudomonas aeruginosa</i> has several similarities but is regulated somewhat differently in the two microbes. Here, we show that the second messenger cyclic dimeric GMP (c-di-GMP) regulates the production and the molecular mass of alginate in <i>A. vinelandii</i> The hybrid protein MucG, containing conserved GGDEF and EAL domains and N-terminal HAMP and PAS domains, behaved as a c-di-GMP phosphodiesterase (PDE). This activity was found to negatively affect the amount and molecular mass of the polysaccharide formed. On the other hand, among the diguanylate cyclases (DGCs) present in <i>A. vinelandii</i>, <i>Av</i>GReg, a globin-coupled sensor (GCS) DGC that directly binds to oxygen, was identified as the main c-di-GMP-synthesizing contributor to alginate production. Overproduction of <i>Av</i>GReg in the parental strain phenocopied a Δ<i>mucG</i> strain with regard to alginate production and the molecular mass of the polymer. MucG was previously shown to prevent the synthesis of high-molecular-mass alginates in response to reduced oxygen transfer rates (OTRs). In this work, we show that cultures exposed to reduced OTRs accumulated higher levels of c-di-GMP; this finding strongly suggests that at least one of the molecular mechanisms involved in modulation of alginate production and molecular mass by oxygen depends on a c-di-GMP signaling module that includes the PAS domain-containing PDE MucG and the GCS DGC <i>Av</i>GReg.<b>IMPORTANCE</b> c-di-GMP has been widely recognized for its essential role in the production of exopolysaccharides in bacteria, such as alginate produced by <i>Pseudomonas</i> and <i>Azotobacter</i> spp. This study reveals that the levels of c-di-GMP also affect the physical properties of alginate, favoring the production of high-molecular-mass alginates in response to lower OTRs. This finding opens up new alternatives for the design of tailor-made alginates for biotechnological applications.	2020 11	Ahumada-Manuel, Carlos L; Ahumada-Manuel, CL; Ahumada-Manuel; Martínez-Ortiz, Iliana C; Martínez-Ortiz, IC; Martínez-Ortiz; Hsueh, Brian Y; Hsueh, BY; Hsueh; Guzmán, Josefina; Guzmán, J; Guzmán; Waters, Christopher M; Waters, CM; Waters; Zamorano-Sánchez, David; Zamorano-Sánchez, D; Zamorano-Sánchez; Espín, Guadalupe; Espín, G; Espín; Núñez, Cinthia; Núñez, C; Núñez	J Bacteriol
33177665	Dense sampling of bird diversity increases power of comparative genomics.	Whole-genome sequencing projects are increasingly populating the tree of life and characterizing biodiversity<sup>1-4</sup>. Sparse taxon sampling has previously been proposed to confound phylogenetic inference<sup>5</sup>, and captures only a fraction of the genomic diversity. Here we report a substantial step towards the dense representation of avian phylogenetic and molecular diversity, by analysing 363 genomes from 92.4% of bird families-including 267 newly sequenced genomes produced for phase II of the Bird 10,000 Genomes (B10K) Project. We use this comparative genome dataset in combination with a pipeline that leverages a reference-free whole-genome alignment to identify orthologous regions in greater numbers than has previously been possible and to recognize genomic novelties in particular bird lineages. The densely sampled alignment provides a single-base-pair map of selection, has more than doubled the fraction of bases that are confidently predicted to be under conservation and reveals extensive patterns of weak selection in predominantly non-coding DNA. Our results demonstrate that increasing the diversity of genomes used in comparative studies can reveal more shared and lineage-specific variation, and improve the investigation of genomic characteristics. We anticipate that this genomic resource will offer new perspectives on evolutionary processes in cross-species comparative analyses and assist in efforts to conserve species.	2020 11	Feng, Shaohong; Feng, S; Feng; Stiller, Josefin; Stiller, J; Stiller; Deng, Yuan; Deng, Y; Deng; Armstrong, Joel; Armstrong, J; Armstrong; Fang, Qi; Fang, Q; Fang; Reeve, Andrew Hart; Reeve, AH; Reeve; Xie, Duo; Xie, D; Xie; Chen, Guangji; Chen, G; Chen; Guo, Chunxue; Guo, C; Guo; Faircloth, Brant C; Faircloth, BC; Faircloth; Petersen, Bent; Petersen, B; Petersen; Wang, Zongji; Wang, Z; Wang; Zhou, Qi; Zhou, Q; Zhou; Diekhans, Mark; Diekhans, M; Diekhans; Chen, Wanjun; Chen, W; Chen; Andreu-Sánchez, Sergio; Andreu-Sánchez, S; Andreu-Sánchez; Margaryan, Ashot; Margaryan, A; Margaryan; Howard, Jason Travis; Howard, JT; Howard; Parent, Carole; Parent, C; Parent; Pacheco, George; Pacheco, G; Pacheco; Sinding, Mikkel-Holger S; Sinding, MS; Sinding; Puetz, Lara; Puetz, L; Puetz; Cavill, Emily; Cavill, E; Cavill; Ribeiro, Ângela M; Ribeiro, ÂM; Ribeiro; Eckhart, Leopold; Eckhart, L; Eckhart; Fjeldså, Jon; Fjeldså, J; Fjeldså; Hosner, Peter A; Hosner, PA; Hosner; Brumfield, Robb T; Brumfield, RT; Brumfield; Christidis, Les; Christidis, L; Christidis; Bertelsen, Mads F; Bertelsen, MF; Bertelsen; Sicheritz-Ponten, Thomas; Sicheritz-Ponten, T; Sicheritz-Ponten; Tietze, Dieter Thomas; Tietze, DT; Tietze; Robertson, Bruce C; Robertson, BC; Robertson; Song, Gang; Song, G; Song; Borgia, Gerald; Borgia, G; Borgia; Claramunt, Santiago; Claramunt, S; Claramunt; Lovette, Irby J; Lovette, IJ; Lovette; Cowen, Saul J; Cowen, SJ; Cowen; Njoroge, Peter; Njoroge, P; Njoroge; Dumbacher, John Philip; Dumbacher, JP; Dumbacher; Ryder, Oliver A; Ryder, OA; Ryder; Fuchs, Jérôme; Fuchs, J; Fuchs; Bunce, Michael; Bunce, M; Bunce; Burt, David W; Burt, DW; Burt; Cracraft, Joel; Cracraft, J; Cracraft; Meng, Guanliang; Meng, G; Meng; Hackett, Shannon J; Hackett, SJ; Hackett; Ryan, Peter G; Ryan, PG; Ryan; Jønsson, Knud Andreas; Jønsson, KA; Jønsson; Jamieson, Ian G; Jamieson, IG; Jamieson; da Fonseca, Rute R; da Fonseca, RR; da Fonseca; Braun, Edward L; Braun, EL; Braun; Houde, Peter; Houde, P; Houde; Mirarab, Siavash; Mirarab, S; Mirarab; Suh, Alexander; Suh, A; Suh; Hansson, Bengt; Hansson, B; Hansson; Ponnikas, Suvi; Ponnikas, S; Ponnikas; Sigeman, Hanna; Sigeman, H; Sigeman; Stervander, Martin; Stervander, M; Stervander; Frandsen, Paul B; Frandsen, PB; Frandsen; van der Zwan, Henriette; van der Zwan, H; van der Zwan; van der Sluis, Rencia; van der Sluis, R; van der Sluis; Visser, Carina; Visser, C; Visser; Balakrishnan, Christopher N; Balakrishnan, CN; Balakrishnan; Clark, Andrew G; Clark, AG; Clark; Fitzpatrick, John W; Fitzpatrick, JW; Fitzpatrick; Bowman, Reed; Bowman, R; Bowman; Chen, Nancy; Chen, N; Chen; Cloutier, Alison; Cloutier, A; Cloutier; Sackton, Timothy B; Sackton, TB; Sackton; Edwards, Scott V; Edwards, SV; Edwards; Foote, Dustin J; Foote, DJ; Foote; Shakya, Subir B; Shakya, SB; Shakya; Sheldon, Frederick H; Sheldon, FH; Sheldon; Vignal, Alain; Vignal, A; Vignal; Soares, André E R; Soares, AER; Soares; Shapiro, Beth; Shapiro, B; Shapiro; González-Solís, Jacob; González-Solís, J; González-Solís; Ferrer-Obiol, Joan; Ferrer-Obiol, J; Ferrer-Obiol; Rozas, Julio; Rozas, J; Rozas; Riutort, Marta; Riutort, M; Riutort; Tigano, Anna; Tigano, A; Tigano; Friesen, Vicki; Friesen, V; Friesen; Dalén, Love; Dalén, L; Dalén; Urrutia, Araxi O; Urrutia, AO; Urrutia; Székely, Tamás; Székely, T; Székely; Liu, Yang; Liu, Y; Liu; Campana, Michael G; Campana, MG; Campana; Corvelo, André; Corvelo, A; Corvelo; Fleischer, Robert C; Fleischer, RC; Fleischer; Rutherford, Kim M; Rutherford, KM; Rutherford; Gemmell, Neil J; Gemmell, NJ; Gemmell; Dussex, Nicolas; Dussex, N; Dussex; Mouritsen, Henrik; Mouritsen, H; Mouritsen; Thiele, Nadine; Thiele, N; Thiele; Delmore, Kira; Delmore, K; Delmore; Liedvogel, Miriam; Liedvogel, M; Liedvogel; Franke, Andre; Franke, A; Franke; Hoeppner, Marc P; Hoeppner, MP; Hoeppner; Krone, Oliver; Krone, O; Krone; Fudickar, Adam M; Fudickar, AM; Fudickar; Milá, Borja; Milá, B; Milá; Ketterson, Ellen D; Ketterson, ED; Ketterson; Fidler, Andrew Eric; Fidler, AE; Fidler; Friis, Guillermo; Friis, G; Friis; Parody-Merino, Ángela M; Parody-Merino, ÁM; Parody-Merino; Battley, Phil F; Battley, PF; Battley; Cox, Murray P; Cox, MP; Cox; Lima, Nicholas Costa Barroso; Lima, NCB; Lima; Prosdocimi, Francisco; Prosdocimi, F; Prosdocimi; Parchman, Thomas Lee; Parchman, TL; Parchman; Schlinger, Barney A; Schlinger, BA; Schlinger; Loiselle, Bette A; Loiselle, BA; Loiselle; Blake, John G; Blake, JG; Blake; Lim, Haw Chuan; Lim, HC; Lim; Day, Lainy B; Day, LB; Day; Fuxjager, Matthew J; Fuxjager, MJ; Fuxjager; Baldwin, Maude W; Baldwin, MW; Baldwin; Braun, Michael J; Braun, MJ; Braun; Wirthlin, Morgan; Wirthlin, M; Wirthlin; Dikow, Rebecca B; Dikow, RB; Dikow; Ryder, T Brandt; Ryder, TB; Ryder; Camenisch, Glauco; Camenisch, G; Camenisch; Keller, Lukas F; Keller, LF; Keller; DaCosta, Jeffrey M; DaCosta, JM; DaCosta; Hauber, Mark E; Hauber, ME; Hauber; Louder, Matthew I M; Louder, MIM; Louder; Witt, Christopher C; Witt, CC; Witt; McGuire, Jimmy A; McGuire, JA; McGuire; Mudge, Joann; Mudge, J; Mudge; Megna, Libby C; Megna, LC; Megna; Carling, Matthew D; Carling, MD; Carling; Wang, Biao; Wang, B; Wang; Taylor, Scott A; Taylor, SA; Taylor; Del-Rio, Glaucia; Del-Rio, G; Del-Rio; Aleixo, Alexandre; Aleixo, A; Aleixo; Vasconcelos, Ana Tereza Ribeiro; Vasconcelos, ATR; Vasconcelos; Mello, Claudio V; Mello, CV; Mello; Weir, Jason T; Weir, JT; Weir; Haussler, David; Haussler, D; Haussler; Li, Qiye; Li, Q; Li; Yang, Huanming; Yang, H; Yang; Wang, Jian; Wang, J; Wang; Lei, Fumin; Lei, F; Lei; Rahbek, Carsten; Rahbek, C; Rahbek; Gilbert, M Thomas P; Gilbert, MTP; Gilbert; Graves, Gary R; Graves, GR; Graves; Jarvis, Erich D; Jarvis, ED; Jarvis; Paten, Benedict; Paten, B; Paten; Zhang, Guojie; Zhang, G; Zhang	Nature
33137872	The Microbial Composition in Circumneutral Thermal Springs from Chignahuapan, Puebla, Mexico Reveals the Presence of Particular Sulfur-Oxidizing Bacterial and Viral Communities.	Terrestrial thermal springs are widely distributed globally, and these springs harbor a broad diversity of organisms of biotechnological interest. In Mexico, few studies exploring this kind of environment have been described. In this work, we explore the microbial community in Chignahuapan hot springs, which provides clues to understand these ecosystems' diversity. We assessed the diversity of the microorganism communities in a hot spring environment with a metagenomic shotgun approach. Besides identifying similarities and differences with other ecosystems, we achieved a systematic comparison against 11 metagenomic samples from diverse localities. The Chignahuapan hot springs show a particular prevalence of sulfur-oxidizing bacteria from the genera <i>Rhodococcus</i>, <i>Thermomonas</i>, <i>Thiomonas</i>, <i>Acinetobacter</i>, <i>Sulfurovum</i>, and <i>Bacillus</i>, highlighting those that are different from other recovered bacterial populations in circumneutral hot springs environments around the world. The co-occurrence analysis of the bacteria and viruses in these environments revealed that within the <i>Rhodococcus</i>, <i>Thiomonas</i>, <i>Thermonas</i>, and <i>Bacillus</i> genera, the Chignahuapan samples have specific species of bacteria with a particular abundance, such as <i>Rhodococcus erytropholis</i>. The viruses in the circumneutral hot springs present bacteriophages within the order Caudovirales (Siphoviridae, Myoviridae, and Podoviridae), but the family of Herelleviridae was the most abundant in Chignahuapan samples. Furthermore, viral auxiliary metabolic genes were identified, many of which contribute mainly to the metabolism of cofactors and vitamins as well as carbohydrate metabolism. Nevertheless, the viruses and bacteria present in the circumneutral environments contribute to the sulfur cycle. This work represents an exhaustive characterization of a community structure in samples collected from hot springs in Mexico and opens opportunities to identify organisms of biotechnological interest.	2020 Oct	Castelán-Sánchez, Hugo Gildardo; Castelán-Sánchez, HG; Castelán-Sánchez; Meza-Rodríguez, Pablo M; Meza-Rodríguez, PM; Meza-Rodríguez; Carrillo, Erika; Carrillo, E; Carrillo; Ríos-Vázquez, David I; Ríos-Vázquez, DI; Ríos-Vázquez; Liñan-Torres, Arturo; Liñan-Torres, A; Liñan-Torres; Batista-García, Ramón Alberto; Batista-García, RA; Batista-García; Pérez-Rueda, Ernesto; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda; Rojas-Ruíz, Norma Elena; Rojas-Ruíz, NE; Rojas-Ruíz; Dávila-Ramos, Sonia; Dávila-Ramos, S; Dávila-Ramos	Microorganisms
33193246	Gene Regulatory Networks of <i>Penicillium echinulatum</i> 2HH and <i>Penicillium oxalicum</i> 114-2 Inferred by a Computational Biology Approach.	<i>Penicillium echinulatum</i> 2HH and <i>Penicillium oxalicum</i> 114-2 are well-known cellulase fungal producers. However, few studies addressing global mechanisms for gene regulation of these two important organisms are available so far. A recent finding that the 2HH wild-type is closely related to <i>P. oxalicum</i> leads to a combined study of these two species. Firstly, we provide a global gene regulatory network for <i>P. echinulatum</i> 2HH and <i>P. oxalicum</i> 114-2, based on TF-TG orthology relationships, considering three related species with well-known regulatory interactions combined with TFBSs prediction. The network was then analyzed in terms of topology, identifying TFs as hubs, and modules. Based on this approach, we explore numerous identified modules, such as the expression of cellulolytic and xylanolytic systems, where XlnR plays a key role in positive regulation of the xylanolytic system. It also regulates positively the cellulolytic system by acting indirectly through the cellodextrin induction system. This remarkable finding suggests that the XlnR-dependent cellulolytic and xylanolytic regulatory systems are probably conserved in both <i>P. echinulatum</i> and <i>P. oxalicum</i>. Finally, we explore the functional congruency on the genes clustered in terms of communities, where the genes related to cellular nitrogen, compound metabolic process and macromolecule metabolic process were the most abundant. Therefore, our approach allows us to confer a degree of accuracy regarding the existence of each inferred interaction.	2020	Lenz, Alexandre Rafael; Lenz, AR; Lenz; Galán-Vásquez, Edgardo; Galán-Vásquez, E; Galán-Vásquez; Balbinot, Eduardo; Balbinot, E; Balbinot; de Abreu, Fernanda Pessi; de Abreu, FP; de Abreu; Souza de Oliveira, Nikael; Souza de Oliveira, N; Souza de Oliveira; da Rosa, Letícia Osório; da Rosa, LO; da Rosa; de Avila E Silva, Scheila; de Avila E Silva, S; de Avila E Silva; Camassola, Marli; Camassola, M; Camassola; Dillon, Aldo José Pinheiro; Dillon, AJP; Dillon; Perez-Rueda, Ernesto; Perez-Rueda, E; Perez-Rueda	Front Microbiol
33178627	New Insights Into DAEC and EAEC Pathogenesis and Phylogeny.	Diarrheagenic <i>E. coli</i> can be separated into six distinct pathotypes, with enteroaggregative (EAEC) and diffusely-adherent <i>E. coli</i> (DAEC) among the least characterized. To gain additional insights into these two pathotypes we performed whole genome sequencing of ten DAEC, nine EAEC strains, isolated from Mexican children with diarrhea, and one EAEC plus one commensal <i>E. coli</i> strains isolated from an adult with diarrhea and a healthy child, respectively. These genome sequences were compared to 85 <i>E. coli</i> genomes available in public databases. The EAEC and DAEC strains segregated into multiple different clades; however, six clades were heavily or exclusively comprised of EAEC and DAEC strains, suggesting a phylogenetic relationship between these two pathotypes. EAEC strains harbored the typical virulence factors under control of the activator AggR, but also several toxins, bacteriocins, and other virulence factors. DAEC strains harbored several iron-scavenging systems, toxins, adhesins, and complement resistance or Immune system evasion factors that suggest a pathogenic paradigm for this poorly understood pathotype. Several virulence factors for both EAEC and DAEC were associated with clinical presentations, not only suggesting the importance of these factors, but also potentially indicating opportunities for intervention. Our studies provide new insights into two distinct but related diarrheagenic organisms.	2020	Meza-Segura, Mario; Meza-Segura, M; Meza-Segura; Zaidi, Mussaret B; Zaidi, MB; Zaidi; Vera-Ponce de León, Arturo; Vera-Ponce de León, A; Vera-Ponce de León; Moran-Garcia, Nadia; Moran-Garcia, N; Moran-Garcia; Martinez-Romero, Esperanza; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Nataro, James P; Nataro, JP; Nataro; Estrada-Garcia, Teresa; Estrada-Garcia, T; Estrada-Garcia	Front Cell Infect Microbiol
32822422	Deciphering the functional diversity of DNA-binding transcription factors in Bacteria and Archaea organisms.	DNA-binding Transcription Factors (TFs) play a central role in regulation of gene expression in prokaryotic organisms, and similarities at the sequence level have been reported. These proteins are predicted with different abundances as a consequence of genome size, where small organisms contain a low proportion of TFs and large genomes contain a high proportion of TFs. In this work, we analyzed a collection of 668 experimentally validated TFs across 30 different species from diverse taxonomical classes, including Escherichia coli K-12, Bacillus subtilis 168, Corynebacterium glutamicum, and Streptomyces coelicolor, among others. This collection of TFs, together with 111 hidden Markov model profiles associated with DNA-binding TFs collected from diverse databases such as PFAM and DBD, was used to identify the repertoire of proteins putatively devoted to gene regulation in 1321 representative genomes of Archaea and Bacteria. The predicted regulatory proteins were posteriorly analyzed in terms of their genomic context, allowing the prediction of functions for TFs and their neighbor genes, such as genes involved in virulence, enzymatic functions, phosphorylation mechanisms, and antibiotic resistance. The functional analysis associated with PFAM groups showed diverse functional categories were significantly enriched in the collection of TFs and the proteins encoded by the neighbor genes, in particular, small-molecule binding and amino acid transmembrane transporter activities associated with the LysR family and proteins devoted to cellular aromatic compound metabolic processes or responses to drugs, stress, or abiotic stimuli in the MarR family. We consider that with the increasing data derived from new technologies, novel TFs can be identified and help improve the predictions for this class of proteins in complete genomes. The complete collection of experimentally characterized and predicted TFs is available at http://web.pcyt.unam.mx/EntrafDB/.	2020	Flores-Bautista, Emanuel; Flores-Bautista, E; Flores-Bautista; Hernandez-Guerrero, Rafael; Hernandez-Guerrero, R; Hernandez-Guerrero; Huerta-Saquero, Alejandro; Huerta-Saquero, A; Huerta-Saquero; Tenorio-Salgado, Silvia; Tenorio-Salgado, S; Tenorio-Salgado; Rivera-Gomez, Nancy; Rivera-Gomez, N; Rivera-Gomez; Romero, Alba; Romero, A; Romero; Ibarra, Jose Antonio; Ibarra, JA; Ibarra; Perez-Rueda, Ernesto; Perez-Rueda, E; Perez-Rueda	PLoS One
32573705	Programmatic access to bacterial regulatory networks with regutools.	RegulonDB has collected, harmonized and centralized data from hundreds of experiments for nearly two decades and is considered a point of reference for transcriptional regulation in Escherichia coli K12. Here, we present the regutools R package to facilitate programmatic access to RegulonDB data in computational biology. regutools gives researchers the possibility of writing reproducible workflows with automated queries to RegulonDB. The regutools package serves as a bridge between RegulonDB data and the Bioconductor ecosystem by reusing the data structures and statistical methods powered by other Bioconductor packages. We demonstrate the integration of regutools with Bioconductor by analyzing transcription factor DNA binding sites and transcriptional regulatory networks from RegulonDB. We anticipate that regutools will serve as a useful building block in our progress to further our understanding of gene regulatory networks.	2020 08	Chávez, Joselyn; Chávez, J; Chávez; Barberena-Jonas, Carmina; Barberena-Jonas, C; Barberena-Jonas; Sotelo-Fonseca, Jesus E; Sotelo-Fonseca, JE; Sotelo-Fonseca; Alquicira-Hernández, José; Alquicira-Hernández, J; Alquicira-Hernández; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Collado-Torres, Leonardo; Collado-Torres, L; Collado-Torres; Reyes, Alejandro; Reyes, A; Reyes	Bioinformatics
33457733	The chloroplast genome of the pincushion cactus <i>Mammilllaria haageana</i> subsp. <i>san-a</i> <i>ngelensis</i>, a Mexican endangered species.	The genus <i>Mammillaria</i> occupies diverse habitats and exhibits diverse growth patterns and a large range of morphologies. Most of the species of this genus are used as ornamental plants and are subject to mass habitat loss. Due to these factors, they are being submitted to selective pressure that might affect conservational efforts and management plans. We obtained the 133 gene chloroplast genome as part of the project of sequencing the complete genome of pincushion cactus, including 88 protein-coding genes, 8 rRNA genes, and 37 tRNA genes. The phylogenetic tree indicates the pincushion cactus is a sister species of <i>M. supertexta</i> and <i>M. huitzilopochtli</i>.	2020 May	Hinojosa-Alvarez, Silvia; Hinojosa-Alvarez, S; Hinojosa-Alvarez; Arias, Salvador; Arias, S; Arias; Ferrand, Sylvie; Ferrand, S; Ferrand; Purugganan, Michael D; Purugganan, MD; Purugganan; Rozas, Julio; Rozas, J; Rozas; Rosas, Ulises; Rosas, U; Rosas; Wegier, Ana; Wegier, A; Wegier	Mitochondrial DNA B Resour
32538895	Human CRY1 variants associate with attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder.	Attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a common and heritable phenotype frequently accompanied by insomnia, anxiety, and depression. Here, using a reverse phenotyping approach, we report heterozygous coding variations in the core circadian clock gene cryptochrome 1 in 15 unrelated multigenerational families with combined ADHD and insomnia. The variants led to functional alterations in the circadian molecular rhythms, providing a mechanistic link to the behavioral symptoms. One variant, CRY1Δ11 c.1657+3A>C, is present in approximately 1% of Europeans, therefore standing out as a diagnostic and therapeutic marker. We showed by exome sequencing in an independent cohort of patients with combined ADHD and insomnia that 8 of 62 patients and 0 of 369 controls carried CRY1Δ11. Also, we identified a variant, CRY1Δ6 c.825+1G>A, that shows reduced affinity for BMAL1/CLOCK and causes an arrhythmic phenotype. Genotype-phenotype correlation analysis revealed that this variant segregated with ADHD and delayed sleep phase disorder (DSPD) in the affected family. Finally, we found in a phenome-wide association study involving 9438 unrelated adult Europeans that CRY1Δ11 was associated with major depressive disorder, insomnia, and anxiety. These results defined a distinctive group of circadian psychiatric phenotypes that we propose to designate as "circiatric" disorders.	2020 07	Onat, O Emre; Onat, OE; Onat; Kars, M Ece; Kars, ME; Kars; Gül, Şeref; Gül, Ş; Gül; Bilguvar, Kaya; Bilguvar, K; Bilguvar; Wu, Yiming; Wu, Y; Wu; Özhan, Ayşe; Özhan, A; Özhan; Aydın, Cihan; Aydın, C; Aydın; Başak, A Nazlı; Başak, AN; Başak; Trusso, M Allegra; Trusso, MA; Trusso; Goracci, Arianna; Goracci, A; Goracci; Fallerini, Chiara; Fallerini, C; Fallerini; Renieri, Alessandra; Renieri, A; Renieri; Casanova, Jean-Laurent; Casanova, JL; Casanova; Itan, Yuval; Itan, Y; Itan; Atbaşoğlu, Cem E; Atbaşoğlu, CE; Atbaşoğlu; Saka, Meram C; Saka, MC; Saka; Kavaklı, İ Halil; Kavaklı, İH; Kavaklı; Özçelik, Tayfun; Özçelik, T; Özçelik	J Clin Invest
32467615	Integrating untargeted metabolomics, genetically informed causal inference, and pathway enrichment to define the obesity metabolome.	Obesity and its associated diseases are major health problems characterized by extensive metabolic disturbances. Understanding the causal connections between these phenotypes and variation in metabolite levels can uncover relevant biology and inform novel intervention strategies. Recent studies have combined metabolite profiling with genetic instrumental variable (IV) analysis (Mendelian randomization) to infer the direction of causality between metabolites and obesity, but often omitted a large portion of untargeted profiling data consisting of unknown, unidentified metabolite signals.	2020 07	Hsu, Yu-Han H; Hsu, YH; Hsu; Astley, Christina M; Astley, CM; Astley; Cole, Joanne B; Cole, JB; Cole; Vedantam, Sailaja; Vedantam, S; Vedantam; Mercader, Josep M; Mercader, JM; Mercader; Metspalu, Andres; Metspalu, A; Metspalu; Fischer, Krista; Fischer, K; Fischer; Fortney, Kristen; Fortney, K; Fortney; Morgen, Eric K; Morgen, EK; Morgen; Gonzalez, Clicerio; Gonzalez, C; Gonzalez; Gonzalez, Maria E; Gonzalez, ME; Gonzalez; Esko, Tonu; Esko, T; Esko; Hirschhorn, Joel N; Hirschhorn, JN; Hirschhorn	Int J Obes (Lond)
32363734	Genetic polymorphisms in the cag pathogenicity island of Helicobacter pylori and risk of stomach cancer and high-grade premalignant gastric lesions.	Helicobacter pylori (Hp) infects the stomach of about half of the human population and is strongly associated with the risk of gastric cancer (GC) and its premalignant precursors. The cag pathogenicity island (cagPAI) is a region of the Hp genome encoding for key molecular machinery involved in the infection process. Following a sequencing study, we selected 50 genetic polymorphisms located in seven cagPAI genes and tested their associations with the risk of advanced gastric premalignant lesions and GC in 1220 subjects from various Latin American populations showing the whole spectrum of phenotypes from gastritis to GC. We found that three polymorphisms of cagA are associated with the risk of advanced gastric premalignant lesions (incomplete intestinal metaplasia [ie, Type 2 and 3] or dysplasia), and that six polymorphisms located in cagA, cagL and cagI were associated with risk of GC. When corrected for multiple testing none of the associations were statistically significant. However, scores built by integrating the individual polymorphisms were significantly associated with the risk of advanced gastric premalignant lesions and GC. These results have the potential of establishing markers for risk stratification in the general population, in view of targeting Hp eradication to high-risk population groups.	2020 11	Canzian, Federico; Canzian, F; Canzian; Rizzato, Cosmeri; Rizzato, C; Rizzato; Obazee, Ofure; Obazee, O; Obazee; Stein, Angelika; Stein, A; Stein; Flores-Luna, Lourdes; Flores-Luna, L; Flores-Luna; Camorlinga-Ponce, Margarita; Camorlinga-Ponce, M; Camorlinga-Ponce; Mendez-Tenorio, Alfonso; Mendez-Tenorio, A; Mendez-Tenorio; Vivas, Jorge; Vivas, J; Vivas; Trujillo, Esperanza; Trujillo, E; Trujillo; Jang, Hyejong; Jang, H; Jang; Chen, Wei; Chen, W; Chen; Kasamatsu, Elena; Kasamatsu, E; Kasamatsu; Bravo, Maria Mercedes; Bravo, MM; Bravo; Torres, Javier; Torres, J; Torres; Muñoz, Nubia; Muñoz, N; Muñoz; Kato, Ikuko; Kato, I; Kato	Int J Cancer
32266159	Mucosal Microbiome Profiles Polygenic Irritable Bowel Syndrome in Mestizo Individuals.	Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is the most frequent functional gastrointestinal disorder, worldwide, with a high prevalence among Mestizo Latin Americans. Because several inflammatory disorders appear to affect this population, a further understanding of host genomic background variants, in conjunction with colonic mucosa dysbiosis, is necessary to determine IBS physiopathology and the effects of environmental pressures. Using a simple polygenic model, host single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and the taxonomic compositions of microbiota were compared between IBS patients and healthy subjects. As proof of concept, five IBS-Rome III patients and five healthy controls (HCs) were systematically studied. The human and bacterial intestinal metagenome of each subject was taxonomically annotated and screened for previously annotated IBS, ulcerative colitis, and Crohn's disease-associated SNPs or taxon abundance. Dietary data and fecal markers were collected and associated with the intestinal microbiome. However, more than 1,000 variants were found, and at least 76 SNPs differentiated IBS patients from HCs, as did associations with 4 phyla and 10 bacterial genera. In this study, we found elements supporting a polygenic background, with frequent variants, among the Mestizo population, and the colonic mucosal enrichment of <i>Bacteroides, Alteromonas, Neisseria, Streptococcus</i>, and <i>Microbacterium</i>, may serve as a hallmark for IBS.	2020	Arredondo-Hernández, Rene; Arredondo-Hernández, R; Arredondo-Hernández; Schmulson, Max; Schmulson, M; Schmulson; Orduña, Patricia; Orduña, P; Orduña; López-Leal, Gamaliel; López-Leal, G; López-Leal; Zarate, Angel-Mario; Zarate, AM; Zarate; Alanis-Funes, Gerardo; Alanis-Funes, G; Alanis-Funes; Alcaraz, Luis David; Alcaraz, LD; Alcaraz; Santiago-Cruz, Rubí; Santiago-Cruz, R; Santiago-Cruz; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Villa, Antonio R; Villa, AR; Villa; Ponce-de-León Rosales, Samuel; Ponce-de-León Rosales, S; Ponce-de-León Rosales; López-Vidal, Yolanda; López-Vidal, Y; López-Vidal; Consorcio Mexicano para el Estudio del Microbioma Humano	Front Cell Infect Microbiol
32313686	Inference of natural selection from ancient DNA.	Evolutionary processes, including selection, can be indirectly inferred based on patterns of genomic variation among contemporary populations or species. However, this often requires unrealistic assumptions of ancestral demography and selective regimes. Sequencing ancient DNA from temporally spaced samples can inform about past selection processes, as time series data allow direct quantification of population parameters collected before, during, and after genetic changes driven by selection. In this Comment and Opinion, we advocate for the inclusion of temporal sampling and the generation of paleogenomic datasets in evolutionary biology, and highlight some of the recent advances that have yet to be broadly applied by evolutionary biologists. In doing so, we consider the expected signatures of balancing, purifying, and positive selection in time series data, and detail how this can advance our understanding of the chronology and tempo of genomic change driven by selection. However, we also recognize the limitations of such data, which can suffer from postmortem damage, fragmentation, low coverage, and typically low sample size. We therefore highlight the many assumptions and considerations associated with analyzing paleogenomic data and the assumptions associated with analytical methods.	2020 Apr	Dehasque, Marianne; Dehasque, M; Dehasque; Ávila-Arcos, María C; Ávila-Arcos, MC; Ávila-Arcos; Díez-Del-Molino, David; Díez-Del-Molino, D; Díez-Del-Molino; Fumagalli, Matteo; Fumagalli, M; Fumagalli; Guschanski, Katerina; Guschanski, K; Guschanski; Lorenzen, Eline D; Lorenzen, ED; Lorenzen; Malaspinas, Anna-Sapfo; Malaspinas, AS; Malaspinas; Marques-Bonet, Tomas; Marques-Bonet, T; Marques-Bonet; Martin, Michael D; Martin, MD; Martin; Murray, Gemma G R; Murray, GGR; Murray; Papadopulos, Alexander S T; Papadopulos, AST; Papadopulos; Therkildsen, Nina Overgaard; Therkildsen, NO; Therkildsen; Wegmann, Daniel; Wegmann, D; Wegmann; Dalén, Love; Dalén, L; Dalén; Foote, Andrew D; Foote, AD; Foote	Evol Lett
31665441	CARD 2020: antibiotic resistome surveillance with the comprehensive antibiotic resistance database.	The Comprehensive Antibiotic Resistance Database (CARD; https://card.mcmaster.ca) is a curated resource providing reference DNA and protein sequences, detection models and bioinformatics tools on the molecular basis of bacterial antimicrobial resistance (AMR). CARD focuses on providing high-quality reference data and molecular sequences within a controlled vocabulary, the Antibiotic Resistance Ontology (ARO), designed by the CARD biocuration team to integrate with software development efforts for resistome analysis and prediction, such as CARD's Resistance Gene Identifier (RGI) software. Since 2017, CARD has expanded through extensive curation of reference sequences, revision of the ontological structure, curation of over 500 new AMR detection models, development of a new classification paradigm and expansion of analytical tools. Most notably, a new Resistomes & Variants module provides analysis and statistical summary of in silico predicted resistance variants from 82 pathogens and over 100 000 genomes. By adding these resistance variants to CARD, we are able to summarize predicted resistance using the information included in CARD, identify trends in AMR mobility and determine previously undescribed and novel resistance variants. Here, we describe updates and recent expansions to CARD and its biocuration process, including new resources for community biocuration of AMR molecular reference data.	2020 01	Alcock, Brian P; Alcock, BP; Alcock; Raphenya, Amogelang R; Raphenya, AR; Raphenya; Lau, Tammy T Y; Lau, TTY; Lau; Tsang, Kara K; Tsang, KK; Tsang; Bouchard, Mégane; Bouchard, M; Bouchard; Edalatmand, Arman; Edalatmand, A; Edalatmand; Huynh, William; Huynh, W; Huynh; Nguyen, Anna-Lisa V; Nguyen, AV; Nguyen; Cheng, Annie A; Cheng, AA; Cheng; Liu, Sihan; Liu, S; Liu; Min, Sally Y; Min, SY; Min; Miroshnichenko, Anatoly; Miroshnichenko, A; Miroshnichenko; Tran, Hiu-Ki; Tran, HK; Tran; Werfalli, Rafik E; Werfalli, RE; Werfalli; Nasir, Jalees A; Nasir, JA; Nasir; Oloni, Martins; Oloni, M; Oloni; Speicher, David J; Speicher, DJ; Speicher; Florescu, Alexandra; Florescu, A; Florescu; Singh, Bhavya; Singh, B; Singh; Faltyn, Mateusz; Faltyn, M; Faltyn; Hernandez-Koutoucheva, Anastasia; Hernandez-Koutoucheva, A; Hernandez-Koutoucheva; Sharma, Arjun N; Sharma, AN; Sharma; Bordeleau, Emily; Bordeleau, E; Bordeleau; Pawlowski, Andrew C; Pawlowski, AC; Pawlowski; Zubyk, Haley L; Zubyk, HL; Zubyk; Dooley, Damion; Dooley, D; Dooley; Griffiths, Emma; Griffiths, E; Griffiths; Maguire, Finlay; Maguire, F; Maguire; Winsor, Geoff L; Winsor, GL; Winsor; Beiko, Robert G; Beiko, RG; Beiko; Brinkman, Fiona S L; Brinkman, FSL; Brinkman; Hsiao, William W L; Hsiao, WWL; Hsiao; Domselaar, Gary V; Domselaar, GV; Domselaar; McArthur, Andrew G; McArthur, AG; McArthur	Nucleic Acids Res
32494122	Pranlukast Antagonizes CD49f and Reduces Stemness in Triple-Negative Breast Cancer Cells.	Cancer ﻿stem ﻿cells (CSCs) drive the initiation, maintenance, and therapy response of breast tumors. CD49f is expressed in breast CSCs and functions in the maintenance of stemness. Thus, blockade of CD49f is a potential therapeutic approach for targeting breast CSCs. In the present study, we aimed to repurpose drugs as CD49f antagonists.	2020	Velázquez-Quesada, Inés; Velázquez-Quesada, I; Velázquez-Quesada; Ruiz-Moreno, Angel J; Ruiz-Moreno, AJ; Ruiz-Moreno; Casique-Aguirre, Diana; Casique-Aguirre, D; Casique-Aguirre; Aguirre-Alvarado, Charmina; Aguirre-Alvarado, C; Aguirre-Alvarado; Cortés-Mendoza, Fabiola; Cortés-Mendoza, F; Cortés-Mendoza; de la Fuente-Granada, Marisol; de la Fuente-Granada, M; de la Fuente-Granada; García-Pérez, Carlos; García-Pérez, C; García-Pérez; Pérez-Tapia, Sonia M; Pérez-Tapia, SM; Pérez-Tapia; González-Arenas, Aliesha; González-Arenas, A; González-Arenas; Segura-Cabrera, Aldo; Segura-Cabrera, A; Segura-Cabrera; Velasco-Velázquez, Marco A; Velasco-Velázquez, MA; Velasco-Velázquez	Drug Des Devel Ther
31947717	Evaluation of the Abundance of DNA-Binding Transcription Factors in Prokaryotes.	The ability of bacteria and archaea to modulate metabolic process, defensive response, and pathogenic capabilities depend on their repertoire of genes and capacity to regulate the expression of them. Transcription factors (TFs) have fundamental roles in controlling these processes. TFs are proteins dedicated to favor and/or impede the activity of the RNA polymerase. In prokaryotes these proteins have been grouped into families that can be found in most of the different taxonomic divisions. In this work, the association between the expansion patterns of 111 protein regulatory families was systematically evaluated in 1351 non-redundant prokaryotic genomes. This analysis provides insights into the functional and evolutionary constraints imposed on different classes of regulatory factors in bacterial and archaeal organisms. Based on their distribution, we found a relationship between the contents of some TF families and genome size. For example, nine TF families that represent 43.7% of the complete collection of TFs are closely associated with genome size; i.e., in large genomes, members of these families are also abundant, but when a genome is small, such TF family sizes are decreased. In contrast, almost 102 families (56.3% of the collection) do not exhibit or show only a low correlation with the genome size, suggesting that a large proportion of duplication or gene loss events occur independently of the genome size and that various yet-unexplored questions about the evolution of these TF families remain. In addition, we identified a group of families that have a similar distribution pattern across <i>Bacteria</i> and <i>Archaea</i>, suggesting common functional and probable coevolution processes, and a group of families universally distributed among all the genomes. Finally, a specific association between the TF families and their additional domains was identified, suggesting that the families sense specific signals or make specific protein-protein contacts to achieve the regulatory roles.	2020 01	Sanchez, Israel; Sanchez, I; Sanchez; Hernandez-Guerrero, Rafael; Hernandez-Guerrero, R; Hernandez-Guerrero; Mendez-Monroy, Paul Erick; Mendez-Monroy, PE; Mendez-Monroy; Martinez-Nuñez, Mario Alberto; Martinez-Nuñez, MA; Martinez-Nuñez; Ibarra, Jose Antonio; Ibarra, JA; Ibarra; Pérez-Rueda, Ernesto; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda	Genes (Basel)
31915222	Origin of OXA-23 Variant OXA-239 from a Recently Emerged Lineage of Acinetobacter baumannii International Clone V.	Over the last few decades, carbapenemase-producing <i>Acinetobacter baumannii</i> has become a major cause of nosocomial infections all over the world. However, the genome identity of lineages of this species in Latin America has not been studied as much as in developed countries. Here, through a population genomics approach considering the whole genomes of 148 isolates (almost 40 from Mexico and Honduras), we describe the recent emergence of the lineage sequence type 758 (ST758), which belongs to the international clone V and has spread out to Canada, Mexico, Honduras, and Colombia. Notably, this lineage was found to coexist with other <i>A. baumannii</i> lineages in hospitals in Mexico and Honduras. Isolates from this lineage show considerable variation in antibiotic resistance profiles, but most of them are resistant to carbapenems. Moreover, we found a variety of acquired oxacillinase (OXA) families within this lineage and tracked the very recent inception, and subsequent horizontal transmission, of the OXA-239 carbapenemase. This work highlights the urgent need to investigate recently emerged lineages of this species in Latin America and elsewhere, as these might harbor novel antibiotic resistance genes.<b>IMPORTANCE</b> <i>A. baumannii</i> is a major cause of nosocomial infections all over the world. Although many isolates from developed countries have been studied in terms of their genome sequence, isolates from Latin America have been much less studied. In this study, using a population genomics approach considering the whole genomes of 148 isolates, we describe the recent emergence of the lineage ST758 endemic to Latin America and the inception of the OXA-239 carbapenemase. Our study highlights the urgent need to investigate recently emerged lineages of this species in Latin America and elsewhere, as these might harbor novel antibiotic resistance genes.	2020 01	Graña-Miraglia, Lucia; Graña-Miraglia, L; Graña-Miraglia; Evans, Benjamin A; Evans, BA; Evans; López-Jácome, Luis E; López-Jácome, LE; López-Jácome; Hernández-Durán, Melissa; Hernández-Durán, M; Hernández-Durán; Colín-Castro, Claudia Adriana; Colín-Castro, CA; Colín-Castro; Volkow-Fernández, Patricia; Volkow-Fernández, P; Volkow-Fernández; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Franco-Cendejas, Rafael; Franco-Cendejas, R; Franco-Cendejas; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez	mSphere
31856202	The protein architecture in Bacteria and Archaea identifies a set of promiscuous and ancient domains.	In this work, we describe a systematic comparative genomic analysis of promiscuous domains in genomes of Bacteria and Archaea. A quantitative measure of domain promiscuity, the weighted domain architecture score (WDAS), was used and applied to 1317 domains in 1320 genomes of Bacteria and Archaea. A functional analysis associated with the WDAS per genome showed that 18 of 50 functional categories were identified as significantly enriched in the promiscuous domains; in particular, small-molecule binding domains, transferases domains, DNA binding domains (transcription factors), and signal transduction domains were identified as promiscuous. In contrast, non-promiscuous domains were identified as associated with 6 of 50 functional categories, and the category Function unknown was enriched. In addition, the WDASs of 52 domains correlated with genome size, i.e., WDAS values decreased as the genome size increased, suggesting that the number of combinations at larger domains increases, including domains in the superfamilies Winged helix-turn-helix and P-loop-containing nucleoside triphosphate hydrolases. Finally, based on classification of the domains according to their ancestry, we determined that the set of 52 promiscuous domains are also ancient and abundant among all the genomes, in contrast to the non-promiscuous domains. In summary, we consider that the association between these two classes of protein domains (promiscuous and non-promiscuous) provides bacterial and archaeal cells with the ability to respond to diverse environmental challenges.	2019	Hernandez-Guerrero, Rafael; Hernandez-Guerrero, R; Hernandez-Guerrero; Galán-Vásquez, Edgardo; Galán-Vásquez, E; Galán-Vásquez; Pérez-Rueda, Ernesto; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda	PLoS One
31921888	Identification of Modules With Similar Gene Regulation and Metabolic Functions Based on Co-expression Data.	Biological systems respond to environmental perturbations and to a large diversity of compounds through gene interactions, and these genetic factors comprise complex networks. In particular, a wide variety of gene co-expression networks have been constructed in recent years thanks to the dramatic increase of experimental information obtained with techniques, such as microarrays and RNA sequencing. These networks allow the identification of groups of co-expressed genes that can function in the same process and, in turn, these networks may be related to biological functions of industrial, medical and academic interest. In this study, gene co-expression networks for 17 bacterial organisms from the COLOMBOS database were analyzed via weighted gene co-expression network analysis and clustered into modules of genes with similar expression patterns for each species. These networks were analyzed to determine relevant modules through a hypergeometric approach based on a set of transcription factors and enzymes for each genome. The richest modules were characterized using PFAM families and KEGG metabolic maps. Additionally, we conducted a Gene Ontology analysis for enrichment of biological functions. Finally, we identified modules that shared similarity through all the studied organisms by using comparative genomics.	2019	Galán-Vásquez, Edgardo; Galán-Vásquez, E; Galán-Vásquez; Perez-Rueda, Ernesto; Perez-Rueda, E; Perez-Rueda	Front Mol Biosci
31560688	Using metabolite profiling to construct and validate a metabolite risk score for predicting future weight gain.	Excess weight gain throughout adulthood can lead to adverse clinical outcomes and are influenced by complex factors that are difficult to measure in free-living individuals. Metabolite profiling offers an opportunity to systematically discover new predictors for weight gain that are relatively easy to measure compared to traditional approaches.	2019	Geidenstam, Nina; Geidenstam, N; Geidenstam; Hsu, Yu-Han H; Hsu, YH; Hsu; Astley, Christina M; Astley, CM; Astley; Mercader, Josep M; Mercader, JM; Mercader; Ridderstråle, Martin; Ridderstråle, M; Ridderstråle; Gonzalez, Maria E; Gonzalez, ME; Gonzalez; Gonzalez, Clicerio; Gonzalez, C; Gonzalez; Hirschhorn, Joel N; Hirschhorn, JN; Hirschhorn; Salem, Rany M; Salem, RM; Salem	PLoS One
31317854	High potassium seawater inhibits ascidian sperm chemotaxis, but does not affect the male gamete chemotaxis of a brown alga.	Male gamete chemotaxis towards the female gamete is a general strategy to facilitate the sexual reproduction in many marine eukaryotes. Biochemical studies of chemoattractants for male gametes of brown algae have advanced in the 1970s and 1980s, but the molecular mechanism of male gamete responses to the attractants remains elusive. In sea urchin, a K+ channel called the tetraKCNG channel plays a fundamental role in sperm chemotaxis and inhibition of K+ efflux through this channel by high K+ seawater blocks almost all cell responses to the chemoattractant. This signalling mechanism could be conserved in marine invertebrates as tetraKCNG channels are conserved in the marine invertebrates that exhibit sperm chemotaxis. We confirmed that high K+ seawater also inhibited sperm chemotaxis in ascidian, Ciona intestinalis (robusta), in this study. Conversely, the male gamete chemotaxis towards the female gamete of a brown alga, Mutimo cylindricus, was preserved even in high K+ seawater. This result indicates that none of the K+ channels is essential for male gamete chemotaxis in the brown alga, suggesting that the signalling mechanism for chemotaxis in this brown alga is quite different from that of marine invertebrates. Correlated to this result, we revealed that the channels previously proposed as homologues of tetraKCNG in brown algae have a distinct domain composition from that of the tetraKCNG. Namely, one of them possesses two repeats of the six transmembrane segments (diKCNG) instead of four. The structural analysis suggests that diKCNG is a cyclic nucleotide-modulated and/or voltage-gated K+ channel.	2019 Aug	Kinoshita-Terauchi, Nana; Kinoshita-Terauchi, N; Kinoshita-Terauchi; Shiba, Kogiku; Shiba, K; Shiba; Terauchi, Makoto; Terauchi, M; Terauchi; Romero, Francisco; Romero, F; Romero; Ramírez-Gómez, Héctor Vincente; Ramírez-Gómez, HV; Ramírez-Gómez; Yoshida, Manabu; Yoshida, M; Yoshida; Motomura, Taizo; Motomura, T; Motomura; Kawai, Hiroshi; Kawai, H; Kawai; Nishigaki, Takuya; Nishigaki, T; Nishigaki	Zygote
31015332	Functional Specialization in <i>Vibrio cholerae</i> Diguanylate Cyclases: Distinct Modes of Motility Suppression and c-di-GMP Production.	<i>Vibrio cholerae</i> biofilm formation and associated motility suppression are correlated with increased concentrations of cyclic diguanylate monophosphate (c-di-GMP), which are in turn driven by increased levels and/or activity of diguanylate cyclases (DGCs). To further our understanding of how c-di-GMP modulators in <i>V. cholerae</i> individually and collectively influence motility with cellular resolution, we determined how DGCs CdgD and CdgH impact intracellular c-di-GMP levels, motility, and biofilm formation. Our results indicated that CdgH strongly influences swim speed distributions; cells in which <i>cdgH</i> was deleted had higher average swim speeds than wild-type cells. Furthermore, our results suggest that CdgD, rather than CdgH, is the dominant DGC responsible for postattachment c-di-GMP production in biofilms. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) biosynthesis genes were found to be extragenic bypass suppressors of the motility phenotypes of strains Δ<i>cdgD</i> and Δ<i>cdgH</i> We compared the motility regulation mechanism of the DGCs with that of Gmd, an LPS O-antigen biosynthesis protein, and discovered that comodulation of c-di-GMP levels by these motility effectors can be positively or negatively cooperative rather than simply additive. Taken together, these results suggest that different environmental and metabolic inputs orchestrate DGC responses of <i>V. cholerae</i> via c-di-GMP production and motility modulation.<b>IMPORTANCE</b> Cyclic diguanylate monophosphate (c-di-GMP) is a broadly conserved bacterial signaling molecule that affects motility, biofilm formation, and virulence. Although it has been known that high intracellular concentrations of c-di-GMP correlate with motility suppression and biofilm formation, how the 53 predicted c-di-GMP modulators in <i>Vibrio cholerae</i> collectively influence motility is not understood in detail. Here we used a combination of plate assays and single-cell tracking methods to correlate motility and biofilm formation outcomes with specific enzymes involved in c-di-GMP synthesis in <i>Vibrio cholerae</i>, the causative agent of the disease cholera.	2019 04	Zamorano-Sánchez, David; Zamorano-Sánchez, D; Zamorano-Sánchez; Xian, Wujing; Xian, W; Xian; Lee, Calvin K; Lee, CK; Lee; Salinas, Mauro; Salinas, M; Salinas; Thongsomboon, Wiriya; Thongsomboon, W; Thongsomboon; Cegelski, Lynette; Cegelski, L; Cegelski; Wong, Gerard C L; Wong, GCL; Wong; Yildiz, Fitnat H; Yildiz, FH; Yildiz	mBio
30252986	The role of gene flow in rapid and repeated evolution of cave-related traits in Mexican tetra, Astyanax mexicanus.	Understanding the molecular basis of repeatedly evolved phenotypes can yield key insights into the evolutionary process. Quantifying gene flow between populations is especially important in interpreting mechanisms of repeated phenotypic evolution, and genomic analyses have revealed that admixture occurs more frequently between diverging lineages than previously thought. In this study, we resequenced 47 whole genomes of the Mexican tetra from three cave populations, two surface populations and outgroup samples. We confirmed that cave populations are polyphyletic and two Astyanax mexicanus lineages are present in our data set. The two lineages likely diverged much more recently than previous mitochondrial estimates of 5-7 mya. Divergence of cave populations from their phylogenetically closest surface population likely occurred between ~161 and 191 k generations ago. The favoured demographic model for most population pairs accounts for divergence with secondary contact and heterogeneous gene flow across the genome, and we rigorously identified gene flow among all lineages sampled. Therefore, the evolution of cave-related traits occurred more rapidly than previously thought, and trogolomorphic traits are maintained despite gene flow with surface populations. The recency of these estimated divergence events suggests that selection may drive the evolution of cave-derived traits, as opposed to disuse and drift. Finally, we show that a key trogolomorphic phenotype QTL is enriched for genomic regions with low divergence between caves, suggesting that regions important for cave phenotypes may be transferred between caves via gene flow. Our study shows that gene flow must be considered in studies of independent, repeated trait evolution.	2018 11	Herman, Adam; Herman, A; Herman; Brandvain, Yaniv; Brandvain, Y; Brandvain; Weagley, James; Weagley, J; Weagley; Jeffery, William R; Jeffery, WR; Jeffery; Keene, Alex C; Keene, AC; Keene; Kono, Thomas J Y; Kono, TJY; Kono; Bilandžija, Helena; Bilandžija, H; Bilandžija; Borowsky, Richard; Borowsky, R; Borowsky; Espinasa, Luis; Espinasa, L; Espinasa; O'Quin, Kelly; O'Quin, K; O'Quin; Ornelas-García, Claudia P; Ornelas-García, CP; Ornelas-García; Yoshizawa, Masato; Yoshizawa, M; Yoshizawa; Carlson, Brian; Carlson, B; Carlson; Maldonado, Ernesto; Maldonado, E; Maldonado; Gross, Joshua B; Gross, JB; Gross; Cartwright, Reed A; Cartwright, RA; Cartwright; Rohner, Nicolas; Rohner, N; Rohner; Warren, Wesley C; Warren, WC; Warren; McGaugh, Suzanne E; McGaugh, SE; McGaugh	Mol Ecol
30338024	First genome sequencing and comparative analyses of <i>Corynebacterium pseudotuberculosis</i> strains from Mexico.	<i>Corynebacterium pseudotuberculosis</i> is a pathogenic bacterium which has been rapidly spreading all over the world, causing economic losses in the agricultural sector and sporadically infecting humans. Six <i>C. pseudotuberculosis</i> strains were isolated from goats, sheep, and horses with distinct abscess locations. For the first time, Mexican genomes of this bacterium were sequenced and studied in silico. All strains were sequenced using Ion Personal Genome Machine sequencer, assembled using Newbler and SPAdes software. The automatic genome annotation was done using the software RAST and in-house scripts for transference, followed by manual curation using Artemis software and BLAST against NCBI and UniProt databases. The six genomes are publicly available in NCBI database. The analysis of nucleotide sequence similarity and the generated phylogenetic tree led to the observation that the Mexican strains are more similar between strains from the same host, but the genetic structure is probably more influenced by transportation of animals between farms than host preference. Also, a putative drug target was predicted and in silico analysis of 46 strains showed two gene clusters capable of differentiating the biovars <i>equi</i> and <i>ovis</i>: Restriction Modification system and CRISPR-Cas cluster.	2018	Parise, Doglas; Parise, D; Parise; Parise, Mariana T D; Parise, MTD; Parise; Viana, Marcus V C; Viana, MVC; Viana; Muñoz-Bucio, Adrian V; Muñoz-Bucio, AV; Muñoz-Bucio; Cortés-Pérez, Yazmin A; Cortés-Pérez, YA; Cortés-Pérez; Arellano-Reynoso, Beatriz; Arellano-Reynoso, B; Arellano-Reynoso; Díaz-Aparicio, Efrén; Díaz-Aparicio, E; Díaz-Aparicio; Dorella, Fernanda A; Dorella, FA; Dorella; Pereira, Felipe L; Pereira, FL; Pereira; Carvalho, Alex F; Carvalho, AF; Carvalho; Figueiredo, Henrique C P; Figueiredo, HCP; Figueiredo; Ghosh, Preetam; Ghosh, P; Ghosh; Barh, Debmalya; Barh, D; Barh; Gomide, Anne C P; Gomide, ACP; Gomide; Azevedo, Vasco A C; Azevedo, VAC; Azevedo	Stand Genomic Sci
29844095	Mexican Carriers of the <i>HNF1A</i> p.E508K Variant Do Not Experience an Enhanced Response to Sulfonylureas.	To assess whether an ethnic-specific variant (p.E508K) in the maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY) gene hepatocyte nuclear factor-1α (<i>HNF1A</i>) found in Mexicans is associated with higher sensitivity to sulfonylureas, as documented in patients with MODY3.	2018 08	Martagón, Alexandro J; Martagón, AJ; Martagón; Bello-Chavolla, Omar Yaxmehen; Bello-Chavolla, OY; Bello-Chavolla; Arellano-Campos, Olimpia; Arellano-Campos, O; Arellano-Campos; Almeda-Valdés, Paloma; Almeda-Valdés, P; Almeda-Valdés; Walford, Geoffrey A; Walford, GA; Walford; Cruz-Bautista, Ivette; Cruz-Bautista, I; Cruz-Bautista; Gómez-Velasco, Donají V; Gómez-Velasco, DV; Gómez-Velasco; Mehta, Roopa; Mehta, R; Mehta; Muñoz-Hernández, Liliana; Muñoz-Hernández, L; Muñoz-Hernández; Sevilla-González, Magdalena; Sevilla-González, M; Sevilla-González; Viveros-Ruiz, Tannia L; Viveros-Ruiz, TL; Viveros-Ruiz; Ordoñez-Sánchez, María Luisa; Ordoñez-Sánchez, ML; Ordoñez-Sánchez; Rodríguez-Guillen, Rosario; Rodríguez-Guillen, R; Rodríguez-Guillen; Florez, Jose C; Florez, JC; Florez; Tusié-Luna, María Teresa; Tusié-Luna, MT; Tusié-Luna; Aguilar-Salinas, Carlos A; Aguilar-Salinas, CA; Aguilar-Salinas; Slim Initiative in Genomic Medicine for the Americas (SIGMA) Type 2 Diabetes Consortium	Diabetes Care
29953444	Genetic contributions to lupus nephritis in a multi-ethnic cohort of systemic lupus erythematous patients.	African Americans, East Asians, and Hispanics with systemic lupus erythematous (SLE) are more likely to develop lupus nephritis (LN) than are SLE patients of European descent. The etiology of this difference is not clear, and this study was undertaken to investigate how genetic variants might explain this effect.	2018	Lanata, Cristina M; Lanata, CM; Lanata; Nititham, Joanne; Nititham, J; Nititham; Taylor, Kimberly E; Taylor, KE; Taylor; Chung, Sharon A; Chung, SA; Chung; Torgerson, Dara G; Torgerson, DG; Torgerson; Seldin, Michael F; Seldin, MF; Seldin; Pons-Estel, Bernardo A; Pons-Estel, BA; Pons-Estel; Tusié-Luna, Teresa; Tusié-Luna, T; Tusié-Luna; Tsao, Betty P; Tsao, BP; Tsao; Morand, Eric F; Morand, EF; Morand; Alarcón-Riquelme, Marta E; Alarcón-Riquelme, ME; Alarcón-Riquelme; Criswell, Lindsey A; Criswell, LA; Criswell	PLoS One
28776255	Transport injuries and deaths in the Eastern Mediterranean Region: findings from the Global Burden of Disease 2015 Study.	Transport injuries (TI) are ranked as one of the leading causes of death, disability, and property loss worldwide. This paper provides an overview of the burden of TI in the Eastern Mediterranean Region (EMR) by age and sex from 1990 to 2015.	2018 May	GBD 2015 Eastern Mediterranean Region Transportation Injuries Collaborators	Int J Public Health
28776240	Diabetes mellitus and chronic kidney disease in the Eastern Mediterranean Region: findings from the Global Burden of Disease 2015 study.	We used findings from the Global Burden of Disease 2015 study to update our previous publication on the burden of diabetes and chronic kidney disease due to diabetes (CKD-DM) during 1990-2015.	2018 May	GBD 2015 Eastern Mediterranean Region Diabetes and Chronic Kidney Disease Collaborators	Int J Public Health
33823812	Functional genomics of a Spiroplasma associated with the carmine cochineals Dactylopius coccus and Dactylopius opuntiae.	Spiroplasma is a widely distributed endosymbiont of insects, arthropods, and plants. In insects, Spiroplasma colonizes the gut, hemolymph, and reproductive organs of the host. Previous metagenomic surveys of the domesticated carmine cochineal Dactylopius coccus and the wild cochineal D. opuntiae reported sequences of Spiroplasma associated with these insects. However, there is no analysis of the genomic capabilities and the interaction of this Spiroplasma with Dactylopius.	2021 Apr	Vera-Ponce León, Arturo; Vera-Ponce León, A; Vera-Ponce León; Dominguez-Mirazo, Marian; Dominguez-Mirazo, M; Dominguez-Mirazo; Bustamante-Brito, Rafael; Bustamante-Brito, R; Bustamante-Brito; Higareda-Alvear, Víctor; Higareda-Alvear, V; Higareda-Alvear; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	BMC Genomics
34584120	Phenotypic plasticity and a new small molecule are involved in a fungal-bacterial interaction.	Nitrogen-fixing bacteria have been extensively studied in the context of interactions with their host plants; however, little is known about the phenotypic plasticity of these microorganisms in nonmutualistic interactions with other eukaryotes. A dual-species coculture model was developed by using the plant symbiotic bacterium Rhizobium etli and the well-studied eukaryote Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a tractable system to explore the molecular mechanisms used by R. etli in nonmutual interactions. Here, we show that the fungus promotes the growth of the bacterium and that together, these organisms form a mixed biofilm whose biomass is ~ 3 times greater and is more structured than that of either single-species biofilm. We found that these biofilm traits are dependent on a symbiotic plasmid encoding elements involved in the phenotypic plasticity of the bacterium, mitochondrial function and in the production of a yeast-secreted sophoroside. Interestingly, the promoters of 3 genes that are key in plant bacteria-interaction (nifH, fixA and nodA) were induced when R. etli coexists with yeast. These results show that investigating interactions between species that do not naturally coexist is a new approach to discover gene functions and specialized metabolites in model organisms.	2021 09	Andrade-Domínguez, Andrés; Andrade-Domínguez, A; Andrade-Domínguez; Trejo-Hernández, Abigail; Trejo-Hernández, A; Trejo-Hernández; Vargas-Lagunas, Carmen; Vargas-Lagunas, C; Vargas-Lagunas; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara	Sci Rep
34238210	Predicting synchronized gene coexpression patterns from fibration symmetries in gene regulatory networks in bacteria.	Gene regulatory networks coordinate the expression of genes across physiological states and ensure a synchronized expression of genes in cellular subsystems, critical for the coherent functioning of cells. Here we address the question whether it is possible to predict gene synchronization from network structure alone. We have recently shown that synchronized gene expression can be predicted from symmetries in the gene regulatory networks described by the concept of symmetry fibrations. We showed that symmetry fibrations partition the genes into groups called fibers based on the symmetries of their 'input trees', the set of paths in the network through which signals can reach a gene. In idealized dynamic gene expression models, all genes in a fiber are perfectly synchronized, while less idealized models-with gene input functions differencing between genes-predict symmetry breaking and desynchronization.	2021 Jul	Leifer, Ian; Leifer, I; Leifer; Sánchez-Pérez, Mishael; Sánchez-Pérez, M; Sánchez-Pérez; Ishida, Cecilia; Ishida, C; Ishida; Makse, Hernán A; Makse, HA; Makse	BMC Bioinformatics
33976161	Variability of plasmid fitness effects contributes to plasmid persistence in bacterial communities.	Plasmid persistence in bacterial populations is strongly influenced by the fitness effects associated with plasmid carriage. However, plasmid fitness effects in wild-type bacterial hosts remain largely unexplored. In this study, we determined the fitness effects of the major antibiotic resistance plasmid pOXA-48_K8 in wild-type, ecologically compatible enterobacterial isolates from the human gut microbiota. Our results show that although pOXA-48_K8 produced an overall reduction in bacterial fitness, it produced small effects in most bacterial hosts, and even beneficial effects in several isolates. Moreover, genomic results showed a link between pOXA-48_K8 fitness effects and bacterial phylogeny, helping to explain plasmid epidemiology. Incorporating our fitness results into a simple population dynamics model revealed a new set of conditions for plasmid stability in bacterial communities, with plasmid persistence increasing with bacterial diversity and becoming less dependent on conjugation. These results help to explain the high prevalence of plasmids in the greatly diverse natural microbial communities.	2021 05	Alonso-Del Valle, Aida; Alonso-Del Valle, A; Alonso-Del Valle; León-Sampedro, Ricardo; León-Sampedro, R; León-Sampedro; Rodríguez-Beltrán, Jerónimo; Rodríguez-Beltrán, J; Rodríguez-Beltrán; DelaFuente, Javier; DelaFuente, J; DelaFuente; Hernández-García, Marta; Hernández-García, M; Hernández-García; Ruiz-Garbajosa, Patricia; Ruiz-Garbajosa, P; Ruiz-Garbajosa; Cantón, Rafael; Cantón, R; Cantón; Peña-Miller, Rafael; Peña-Miller, R; Peña-Miller; San Millán, Alvaro; San Millán, A; San Millán	Nat Commun
34868100	The <i>Lotus japonicus</i> ROP3 Is Involved in the Establishment of the Nitrogen-Fixing Symbiosis but Not of the Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Symbiosis.	Legumes form root mutualistic symbioses with some soil microbes promoting their growth, rhizobia, and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF). A conserved set of plant proteins rules the transduction of symbiotic signals from rhizobia and AMF in a so-called common symbiotic signaling pathway (CSSP). Despite considerable efforts and advances over the past 20 years, there are still key elements to be discovered about the establishment of these root symbioses. Rhizobia and AMF root colonization are possible after a deep cell reorganization. In the interaction between the model legume <i>Lotus japonicus</i> and <i>Mesorhizobium loti</i>, this reorganization has been shown to be dependent on a SCAR/Wave-like signaling module, including Rho-GTPase (ROP in plants). Here, we studied the potential role of ROP3 in the nitrogen-fixing symbiosis (NFS) as well as in the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis (AMS). We performed a detailed phenotypic study on the effects of the loss of a single ROP on the establishment of both root symbioses. Moreover, we evaluated the expression of key genes related to CSSP and to the rhizobial-specific pathway. Under our experimental conditions, <i>rop3</i> mutant showed less nodule formation at 7- and 21-days post inoculation as well as less microcolonies and a higher frequency of epidermal infection threads. However, AMF root colonization was not affected. These results suggest a role of ROP3 as a positive regulator of infection thread formation and nodulation in <i>L. japonicus</i>. In addition, CSSP gene expression was neither affected in NFS nor in AMS condition in <i>rop3</i> mutant. whereas the expression level of some genes belonging to the rhizobial-specific pathway, like <i>RACK1</i>, decreased in the NFS. In conclusion, ROP3 appears to be involved in the NFS, but is neither required for intra-radical growth of AMF nor arbuscule formation.	2021	García-Soto, Ivette; García-Soto, I; García-Soto; Boussageon, Raphael; Boussageon, R; Boussageon; Cruz-Farfán, Yareni Marlene; Cruz-Farfán, YM; Cruz-Farfán; Castro-Chilpa, Jesus Daniel; Castro-Chilpa, JD; Castro-Chilpa; Hernández-Cerezo, Liz Xochiquetzal; Hernández-Cerezo, LX; Hernández-Cerezo; Bustos-Zagal, Victor; Bustos-Zagal, V; Bustos-Zagal; Leija-Salas, Alfonso; Leija-Salas, A; Leija-Salas; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Torres, Martha; Torres, M; Torres; Formey, Damien; Formey, D; Formey; Courty, Pierre-Emmanuel; Courty, PE; Courty; Wipf, Daniel; Wipf, D; Wipf; Serrano, Mario; Serrano, M; Serrano; Tromas, Alexandre; Tromas, A; Tromas	Front Plant Sci
34804086	<i>Arabidopsis thaliana</i> Cuticle Composition Contributes to Differential Defense Response to <i>Botrytis cinerea</i>.	The chemical composition of a plant cuticle can change in response to various abiotic or biotic stresses and plays essential functions in disease resistance responses. <i>Arabidopsis thaliana</i> mutants altered in cutin content are resistant to <i>Botrytis cinerea</i>, presumably because of increased cuticular water and solute permeability, allowing for faster induction of defense responses. Within this context, our knowledge of wax mutants is limited against this pathogen. We tested the contribution of cuticular components to immunity to <i>B. cinerea</i> using mutants altered in either cutin or wax alone, or in both cutin and wax contents. We found that even all the tested mutants showed increased permeability and reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation in comparison with wild-type plants and that only cutin mutants showed resistance. To elucidate the early molecular mechanisms underlying cuticle-related immunity, we performed a transcriptomic analysis. A set of upregulated genes involved in cell wall integrity and accumulation of ROS were shared by the cutin mutants <i>bdg</i>, <i>lacs2-3</i>, and <i>eca2</i>, but not by the wax mutants <i>cer1-4</i> and <i>cer3-6</i>. Interestingly, these genes have recently been shown to be required in <i>B. cinerea</i> resistance. In contrast, we found the induction of genes involved in abiotic stress shared by the two wax mutants. Our study reveals new insight that the faster recognition of a pathogen by changes in cuticular permeability is not enough to induce resistance to <i>B. cinerea</i>, as has previously been hypothesized. In addition, our data suggest that mutants with resistant phenotype can activate other defense pathways, different from those canonical immune ones.	2021	Aragón, Wendy; Aragón, W; Aragón; Formey, Damien; Formey, D; Formey; Aviles-Baltazar, Norma Yaniri; Aviles-Baltazar, NY; Aviles-Baltazar; Torres, Martha; Torres, M; Torres; Serrano, Mario; Serrano, M; Serrano	Front Plant Sci
34833910	Non-Chemical Treatments for the Pre- and Post-Harvest Elicitation of Defense Mechanisms in the Fungi-Avocado Pathosystem.	The greatest challenge for the avocado (<i>Persea americana</i> Miller) industry is to maintain the quality of the fruit to meet consumer requirements. Anthracnose is considered the most important disease in this industry, and it is caused by different species of the genus <i>Colletotrichum</i>, although other pathogens can be equally important. The defense mechanisms that fruit naturally uses can be triggered in response to the attack of pathogenic microorganisms and also by the application of exogenous elicitors in the form of GRAS compounds. The elicitors are recognized by receptors called PRRs, which are proteins located on the avocado fruit cell surface that have high affinity and specificity for PAMPs, MAMPs, and DAMPs. The activation of defense-signaling pathways depends on ethylene, salicylic, and jasmonic acids, and it occurs hours or days after PTI activation. These defense mechanisms aim to drive the pathogen to death. The application of essential oils, antagonists, volatile compounds, chitosan and silicon has been documented in vitro and on avocado fruit, showing some of them to have elicitor and fungicidal effects that are reflected in the postharvest quality of the fruit and a lower incidence of diseases. The main focus of these studies has been on anthracnose diseases. This review presents the most relevant advances in the use of natural compounds with antifungal and elicitor effects in plant tissues.	2021 Nov	Herrera-González, Juan Antonio; Herrera-González, JA; Herrera-González; Bautista-Baños, Silvia; Bautista-Baños, S; Bautista-Baños; Serrano, Mario; Serrano, M; Serrano; Romanazzi, Gianfranco; Romanazzi, G; Romanazzi; Gutiérrez-Martínez, Porfirio; Gutiérrez-Martínez, P; Gutiérrez-Martínez	Molecules
34007059	Genomic evolution of the class Acidithiobacillia: deep-branching Proteobacteria living in extreme acidic conditions.	Members of the genus Acidithiobacillus, now ranked within the class Acidithiobacillia, are model bacteria for the study of chemolithotrophic energy conversion under extreme conditions. Knowledge of the genomic and taxonomic diversity of Acidithiobacillia is still limited. Here, we present a systematic analysis of nearly 100 genomes from the class sampled from a wide range of habitats. Some of these genomes are new and others have been reclassified on the basis of advanced genomic analysis, thus defining 19 Acidithiobacillia lineages ranking at different taxonomic levels. This work provides the most comprehensive classification and pangenomic analysis of this deep-branching class of Proteobacteria to date. The phylogenomic framework obtained illuminates not only the evolutionary past of this lineage, but also the molecular evolution of relevant aerobic respiratory proteins, namely the cytochrome bo<sub>3</sub> ubiquinol oxidases.	2021 11	Moya-Beltrán, Ana; Moya-Beltrán, A; Moya-Beltrán; Beard, Simón; Beard, S; Beard; Rojas-Villalobos, Camila; Rojas-Villalobos, C; Rojas-Villalobos; Issotta, Francisco; Issotta, F; Issotta; Gallardo, Yasna; Gallardo, Y; Gallardo; Ulloa, Ricardo; Ulloa, R; Ulloa; Giaveno, Alejandra; Giaveno, A; Giaveno; Degli Esposti, Mauro; Degli Esposti, M; Degli Esposti; Johnson, D Barrie; Johnson, DB; Johnson; Quatrini, Raquel; Quatrini, R; Quatrini	ISME J
34391010	Source of detritus and toxic elements of seabed sediments from Acapulco Bay (southern Mexico) and their ecological risk.	Total concentrations of Ba, Cd, Co, Cr, Cu, Mn, Ni, Pb, V, Zn, and As together with Sr and Pb isotopic compositions of seabed sediments from the worldwide famous tourist destination of Acapulco Bay, Guerrero (southern Mexico) were determined to reveal the origin of detritus and toxic elements (TEs), their potential natural and anthropogenic sources, elemental distribution and their ecological risk. Sediments derive entirely from the nearby Acapulco Granite and their concentrations of TEs are variable and rather low, although, several are above the Local Geochemical Baseline in some sites of the bay. The enrichment factor (EF) and Pb isotopes indicate that TEs derive from the Acapulco Granite with contributions of an anthropogenic source represented, very likely, by ship-bottom paints. Wastewaters are a significant source of Pb and Cu. The ecological risk of TEs is low and only Cu represents a moderate ecological risk in a few sites.	2021 Nov	Soledad, Bahena-Román Marbella; Soledad, BM; Soledad; Oscar, Talavera-Mendoza; Oscar, TM; Oscar; Sergio, García-Ibáñez; Sergio, GI; Sergio; Alicia, Sarmiento-Villagrana; Alicia, SV; Alicia; José Luis, Aguirre-Noyola; José Luis, AN; José Luis; Adrián, Salgado-Souto Sergio; Adrián, SS; Adrián; Catalina, Gómez-Espinosa; Catalina, GE; Catalina; Víctor, Rosas-Guerrero; Víctor, RG; Víctor	Mar Pollut Bull
34427721	Comparative Analysis of Skin Bacterial Diversity and Its Potential Antifungal Function Between Desert and Pine Forest Populations of Boreal Toads Anaxyrus boreas.	The skin microbiome in amphibians has gained a lot of attention as some of its members play a protective role against pathogens such as the fungus Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd). The composition of skin bacterial communities has been suggested as one of the factors explaining differences in susceptibility to Bd among amphibian species and populations. The boreal toad Anaxyrus boreas is known to be susceptible to Bd, and severe population declines in its southeastern range have been documented. However, throughout A. boreas distribution, populations present differences in susceptibility to Bd infections which may be associated with differences in skin microbial diversity. This study compared the skin bacterial diversity and Bd infection levels of A. boreas in one desert population and one pine forest population from Baja California, Mexico. We found that desert and pine forest toad populations exhibit differences in skin bacterial community structure but show similar Bd infection levels. Using a predictive method, we found that the abundance of bacteria with potential Bd-inhibitory properties differed between uninfected and infected individuals but not between populations. Our data suggest that several bacteria in the skin community may be offering protection from Bd infections in these A. boreas populations. This study provides foundational evidence for future studies seeking to understand the skin-microbial variation among boreal toads' populations and its relation with Bd susceptibility.	2021 Aug	Basanta, M Delia; Basanta, MD; Basanta; Rebollar, Eria A; Rebollar, EA; Rebollar; García-Castillo, Mirna G; García-Castillo, MG; García-Castillo; Parra Olea, Gabriela; Parra Olea, G; Parra Olea	Microb Ecol
34271321	Analysis of the immunomodulatory activity of excreted and secreted products from Haemonchus placei transition infective larvae (xL<sub>3</sub>).	The excretory/secretory (E/S) products released by infective transitory larvae (xL<sub>3</sub>) of Haemonchus placei have an important biological function in stimulating immune mechanisms during the invasive process. Our objective was to analyse the modulatory activity of 15 and 70 kDa E/S products from H. placei xL<sub>3</sub>. Both E/S products were collected from xL<sub>3</sub>in vitro cultures at 24 and 72 h. Proteins were confirmed by SDS-PAGE, and the corresponding spots were elicited by gel isoelectrofocusing (IEF) and characterised by mass spectrometry. Additionally, flow cytometry of CD4<sup>+</sup>/γδ<sup>+</sup> T cells and immune gene expression were performed by proliferation assays using each E/S product to stimulate lymphocyte and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from non-infected calves. The IEF results displayed two spots of 7.0 and 5.7 pI for the 15 and 70 kDa products, respectively. Additionally, 29 and 17 peptides from the 15 and 70 kDa E/S products, respectively, were identified with the hypothetical neurotransmitter and enzymatic functions necessary for larval development. The relative expression displayed upregulation of IL4, 5, 6, 8, 10, 13, IFNγ, and FCεR1A genes (from 2.0- to 17.6-fold, p < 0.05) stimulated by the 15 and 70 kDa proteins, indicating specific genes against haemonchosis. Although the percentage of median florescence intensity (MFI%) of CD4<sup>+</sup>/γδ<sup>+</sup> T cells did not change for both E/S products compared to the negative control and concanavalin-A stimulated cells as the positive control (p > 0.05), the 15-kDa protein reduced the levels of both T cells, and the 70-kDa proteins increased the γδ<sup>+</sup> cells slightly. Additionally, there was increased PBMCs proliferation by the 70 kDa proteins (p < 0.05), denoting the biological role of other immune cells. The 15 and 70 kDa protein E/S products from H. placei xL<sub>3</sub> showed modulation of the immune response, and although more studies are required, they indicate important functions in the host/parasite interaction.	2021 Oct	Maza-Lopez, Jocelyn; Maza-Lopez, J; Maza-Lopez; Contreras-Ochoa, Carla O; Contreras-Ochoa, CO; Contreras-Ochoa; Reyes-Guerrero, David E; Reyes-Guerrero, DE; Reyes-Guerrero; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Hernández-Ortíz, Magdalena; Hernández-Ortíz, M; Hernández-Ortíz; Olmedo-Juárez, Agustín; Olmedo-Juárez, A; Olmedo-Juárez; López-Arellano, Ma Eugenia; López-Arellano, ME; López-Arellano	Vet Parasitol
34461312	Lisen&Curate: A platform to facilitate gathering textual evidence for curation of regulation of transcription initiation in bacteria.	The number of published papers in biomedical research makes it rather impossible for a researcher to keep up to date. This is where manually curated databases contribute facilitating the access to knowledge. However, the structure required by databases strongly limits the type of valuable information that can be incorporated. Here, we present Lisen&Curate, a curation system that facilitates linking sentences or part of sentences (both considered sources) in articles with their corresponding curated objects, so that rich additional information of these objects is easily available to users. These sources are going to be offered both within RegulonDB and a new database, L-Regulon. To show the relevance of our work, two senior curators performed a curation of 31 articles on the regulation of transcription initiation of E. coli using Lisen&Curate. As a result, 194 objects were curated and 781 sources were recorded. We also found that these sources are useful to develop automatic approaches to detect objects in articles by observing word frequency patterns and by carrying out an open information extraction task. Sources may help to elaborate a controlled vocabulary of experimental methods. Finally, we discuss our ecosystem of interconnected applications, RegulonDB, L-Regulon, and Lisen&Curate, to facilitate the access to knowledge on regulation of transcription initiation in bacteria. We see our proposal as the starting point to change the way experimentalists connect a piece of knowledge with its evidence using RegulonDB.	2021 Nov-Dec	Díaz-Rodríguez, Martín; Díaz-Rodríguez, M; Díaz-Rodríguez; Lithgow-Serrano, Oscar; Lithgow-Serrano, O; Lithgow-Serrano; Guadarrama-García, Francisco; Guadarrama-García, F; Guadarrama-García; Tierrafría, Víctor H; Tierrafría, VH; Tierrafría; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Solano-Lira, Hilda; Solano-Lira, H; Solano-Lira; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Rinaldi, Fabio; Rinaldi, F; Rinaldi; Méndez-Cruz, Carlos-Francisco; Méndez-Cruz, CF; Méndez-Cruz; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Biochim Biophys Acta Gene Regul Mech
34638169	Improving classification of low-resource COVID-19 literature by using Named Entity Recognition.	Automatic document classification for highly interrelated classes is a demanding task that becomes more challenging when there is little labeled data for training. Such is the case of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) Clinical repository-a repository of classified and translated academic articles related to COVID-19 and relevant to the clinical practice-where a 3-way classification scheme is being applied to COVID-19 literature. During the 7th Biomedical Linked Annotation Hackathon (BLAH7) hackathon, we performed experiments to explore the use of named-entity-recognition (NER) to improve the classification. We processed the literature with OntoGene's Biomedical Entity Recogniser (OGER) and used the resulting identified Named Entities (NE) and their links to major biological databases as extra input features for the classifier. We compared the results with a baseline model without the OGER extracted features. In these proof-of-concept experiments, we observed a clear gain on COVID-19 literature classification. In particular, NE's origin was useful to classify document types and NE's type for clinical specialties. Due to the limitations of the small dataset, we can only conclude that our results suggests that NER would benefit this classification task. In order to accurately estimate this benefit, further experiments with a larger dataset would be needed.	2021 Sep	Lithgow-Serrano, Oscar; Lithgow-Serrano, O; Lithgow-Serrano; Cornelius, Joseph; Cornelius, J; Cornelius; Kanjirangat, Vani; Kanjirangat, V; Kanjirangat; Méndez-Cruz, Carlos-Francisco; Méndez-Cruz, CF; Méndez-Cruz; Rinaldi, Fabio; Rinaldi, F; Rinaldi	Genomics Inform
34167126	Molecular and Cellular Mechanisms Underlying Temperature-Dependent Sex Determination in Turtles.	The discovery in mammals that fetal testes are required in order to develop the male phenotype inspired research efforts to elucidate the mechanisms underlying gonadal sex determination and differentiation in vertebrates. A pioneer work in 1966 that demonstrated the influence of incubation temperature on sexual phenotype in some reptilian species triggered great interest in the environment's role as a modulator of plasticity in sex determination. Several chelonian species have been used as animal models to test hypotheses concerning the mechanisms involved in temperature-dependent sex determination (TSD). This brief review intends to outline the history of scientific efforts that corroborate our current understanding of the state-of-the-art in TSD using chelonian species as a reference.	2021	Merchant-Larios, Horacio; Merchant-Larios, H; Merchant-Larios; Díaz-Hernández, Verónica; Díaz-Hernández, V; Díaz-Hernández; Cortez, Diego; Cortez, D; Cortez	Sex Dev
34490328	Metaproteomic Insights Into the Microbial Community in Pozol.	Pozol is an acidic, refreshing, and non-alcoholic traditional Mayan beverage made with nixtamalized corn dough that is fermented spontaneously. The extensive analysis of the microbiology, biochemistry and metaproteomics of pozol allowed the construction of a comprehensive image of the fermentation system. The main changes in both the substrate and the microbiota occurred in the first 9 h of fermentation. The increase in microorganisms correlated with the drop in pH and with the decrease in the contents of carbohydrates, lipids, and nitrogen, which shows that this stage has the highest metabolic activity. Bacterial proteins were mainly represented by those of lactic acid bacteria, and among them, the proteins from genus <i>Streptococcus</i> was overwhelmingly the most abundant. Yeast proteins were present in all the analyzed samples, while proteins from filamentous fungi increased up to 48 h. The metaproteomic approach allowed us to identify several previously unknown enzyme complexes in the system. Additionally, enzymes for hydrolysis of starch, hemicellulose and cellulose were found, indicating that all these substrates can be used as a carbon source by the microbiota. Finally, enzymes related to the production of essential intermediates involved in the synthesis of organic acids, acetoin, butanediol, fatty acids and amino acids important for the generation of compounds that contribute to the sensorial quality of pozol, were found.	2021	Rizo, Jocelin; Rizo, J; Rizo; Guillén, Daniel; Guillén, D; Guillén; Díaz-Ruiz, Gloria; Díaz-Ruiz, G; Díaz-Ruiz; Wacher, Carmen; Wacher, C; Wacher; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Sánchez, Sergio; Sánchez, S; Sánchez; Rodríguez-Sanoja, Romina; Rodríguez-Sanoja, R; Rodríguez-Sanoja	Front Nutr
34458021	Diverse methanogens, bacteria and tannase genes in the feces of the endangered volcano rabbit (<i>Romerolagus diazi)</i>.	The volcano rabbit is the smallest lagomorph in Mexico, it is monotypic and endemic to the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt. It is classified as endangered by Mexican legislation and as critically endangered by the IUCN, in the Red List. <i>Romerolagus diazi</i> consumes large amounts of grasses, seedlings, shrubs, and trees. Pines and oaks contain tannins that can be toxic to the organisms which consume them. The volcano rabbit microbiota may be rich in bacteria capable of degrading fiber and phenolic compounds.	2021	Montes-Carreto, Leslie M; Montes-Carreto, LM; Montes-Carreto; Aguirre-Noyola, José Luis; Aguirre-Noyola, JL; Aguirre-Noyola; Solís-García, Itzel A; Solís-García, IA; Solís-García; Ortega, Jorge; Ortega, J; Ortega; Martinez-Romero, Esperanza; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Guerrero, José Antonio; Guerrero, JA; Guerrero	PeerJ
34421831	The Phospholipid <i>N</i>-Methyltransferase and Phosphatidylcholine Synthase Pathways and the ChoXWV Choline Uptake System Involved in Phosphatidylcholine Synthesis Are Widely Conserved in Most, but Not All <i>Brucella</i> Species.	The brucellae are facultative intracellular bacteria with a cell envelope rich in phosphatidylcholine (PC). PC is abundant in eukaryotes but rare in prokaryotes, and it has been proposed that <i>Brucella</i> uses PC to mimic eukaryotic-like features and avoid innate immune responses in the host. Two PC synthesis pathways are known in prokaryotes: the PmtA-catalyzed trimethylation of phosphatidylethanolamine and the direct linkage of choline to CDP-diacylglycerol catalyzed by the PC synthase Pcs. Previous studies have reported that <i>B. abortus</i> and <i>B. melitensis</i> possess non-functional PmtAs and that PC is synthesized exclusively <i>via</i> Pcs in these strains. A putative choline transporter ChoXWV has also been linked to PC synthesis in <i>B. abortus</i>. Here, we report that Pcs and Pmt pathways are active in <i>B. suis</i> biovar 2 and that a bioinformatics analysis of <i>Brucella</i> genomes suggests that PmtA is only inactivated in <i>B. abortus</i> and <i>B. melitensis</i> strains. We also show that ChoXWV is active in <i>B. suis</i> biovar 2 and conserved in all brucellae except <i>B. canis</i> and <i>B. inopinata.</i> Unexpectedly, the experimentally verified ChoXWV dysfunction in <i>B. canis</i> did not abrogate PC synthesis in a PmtA-deficient mutant, which suggests the presence of an unknown mechanism for obtaining choline for the Pcs pathway in <i>Brucella</i>. We also found that ChoXWV dysfunction did not cause attenuation in <i>B. suis</i> biovar 2. The results of these studies are discussed with respect to the proposed role of PC in <i>Brucella</i> virulence and how differential use of the Pmt and Pcs pathways may influence the interactions of these bacteria with their mammalian hosts.	2021	Aragón-Aranda, Beatriz; Aragón-Aranda, B; Aragón-Aranda; Palacios-Chaves, Leyre; Palacios-Chaves, L; Palacios-Chaves; Salvador-Bescós, Miriam; Salvador-Bescós, M; Salvador-Bescós; de Miguel, María Jesús; de Miguel, MJ; de Miguel; Muñoz, Pilar M; Muñoz, PM; Muñoz; Vences-Guzmán, Miguel Ángel; Vences-Guzmán, MÁ; Vences-Guzmán; Zúñiga-Ripa, Amaia; Zúñiga-Ripa, A; Zúñiga-Ripa; Lázaro-Antón, Leticia; Lázaro-Antón, L; Lázaro-Antón; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Moriyón, Ignacio; Moriyón, I; Moriyón; Iriarte, Maite; Iriarte, M; Iriarte; Conde-Álvarez, Raquel; Conde-Álvarez, R; Conde-Álvarez	Front Microbiol
33964629	PsrA positively regulates the unsaturated fatty acid synthesis operon fabAB in Azotobacter vinelandii.	In Pseudomonas spp. PsrA, a transcriptional activator of the rpoS gene, regulates fatty acid catabolism by repressing the fadBA5 β-oxidation operon. In Azotobacter vinelandii, a soil bacterium closely related to Pseudomonas species, PsrA is also an activator of rpoS expression, although its participation in the regulation of lipid metabolism has not been analyzed. In this work we found that inactivation of psrA had no effect on the expression of β-oxidation genes in this bacterium, but instead decreased expression of the unsaturated fatty acid biosynthetic operon fabAB (3-hydroxydecanoyl-ACP dehydratase/isomerase and 3-ketoacyl-ACP synthase I). This inactivation also reduced the unsaturated fatty acid content, as revealed by the thin-layer chromatographic analysis, and confirmed by gas chromatography; notably, there was also a lower content of cyclopropane fatty acids, which are synthesized from unsaturated fatty acids. The absence of PsrA has no effect on the growth rate, but showed loss of cell viability during long-term growth, in accordance with the role of these unsaturated and cyclopropane fatty acids in the protection of membranes. Finally, an electrophoretic mobility shift assay revealed specific binding of PsrA to the fabA promoter region, where a putative binding site for this regulator was located. Taken together, our data show that PsrA plays an important role in the regulation of unsaturated fatty acids metabolism in A. vinelandii by positively regulating fabAB.	2021 Aug	Velázquez-Sánchez, Claudia; Velázquez-Sánchez, C; Velázquez-Sánchez; Vences-Guzmán, Miguel Ángel; Vences-Guzmán, MÁ; Vences-Guzmán; Moreno, Soledad; Moreno, S; Moreno; Tinoco-Valencia, Raunel; Tinoco-Valencia, R; Tinoco-Valencia; Espín, Guadalupe; Espín, G; Espín; Guzmán, Josefina; Guzmán, J; Guzmán; Sahonero-Canavesi, Diana X; Sahonero-Canavesi, DX; Sahonero-Canavesi; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Segura, Daniel; Segura, D; Segura	Microbiol Res
33813711	Transcriptomic analysis of Burkholderia cenocepacia CEIB S5-2 during methyl parathion degradation.	Methyl parathion (MP) is a highly toxic organophosphorus pesticide associated with water, soil, and air pollution events. The identification and characterization of microorganisms capable of biodegrading pollutants are an important environmental task for bioremediation of pesticide impacted sites. The strain Burkholderia cenocepacia CEIB S5-2 is a bacterium capable of efficiently hydrolyzing MP and biodegrade p-nitrophenol (PNP), the main MP hydrolysis product. Due to the high PNP toxicity over microbial living forms, the reports on bacterial PNP biodegradation are scarce. According to the genomic data, the MP- and PNP-degrading ability observed in B. cenocepacia CEIB S5-2 is related to the presence of the methyl parathion-degrading gene (mpd) and the gene cluster pnpABA'E1E2FDC, which include the genes implicated in the PNP degradation. In this work, the transcriptomic analysis of the strain in the presence of MP revealed the differential expression of 257 genes, including all genes implicated in the PNP degradation, as well as a set of genes related to the sensing of environmental changes, the response to stress, and the degradation of aromatic compounds, such as translational regulators, membrane transporters, efflux pumps, and oxidative stress response genes. These findings suggest that these genes play an important role in the defense against toxic effects derived from the MP and PNP exposure. Therefore, B. cenocepacia CEIB S5-2 has a great potential for application in pesticide bioremediation approaches due to its biodegradation capabilities and the differential expression of genes for resistance to MP and PNP.	2021 Aug	Ortiz-Hernández, Ma Laura; Ortiz-Hernández, ML; Ortiz-Hernández; Gama-Martínez, Yitzel; Gama-Martínez, Y; Gama-Martínez; Fernández-López, Maikel; Fernández-López, M; Fernández-López; Castrejón-Godínez, María Luisa; Castrejón-Godínez, ML; Castrejón-Godínez; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Tovar-Sánchez, Efraín; Tovar-Sánchez, E; Tovar-Sánchez; Salazar, Emmanuel; Salazar, E; Salazar; Rodríguez, Alexis; Rodríguez, A; Rodríguez; Mussali-Galante, Patricia; Mussali-Galante, P; Mussali-Galante	Environ Sci Pollut Res Int
34394059	The EcoCyc Database in 2021.	The EcoCyc model-organism database collects and summarizes experimental data for <i>Escherichia coli</i> K-12. EcoCyc is regularly updated by the manual curation of individual database entries, such as genes, proteins, and metabolic pathways, and by the programmatic addition of results from select high-throughput analyses. Updates to the Pathway Tools software that supports EcoCyc and to the web interface that enables user access have continuously improved its usability and expanded its functionality. This article highlights recent improvements to the curated data in the areas of metabolism, transport, DNA repair, and regulation of gene expression. New and revised data analysis and visualization tools include an interactive metabolic network explorer, a circular genome viewer, and various improvements to the speed and usability of existing tools.	2021	Keseler, Ingrid M; Keseler, IM; Keseler; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Mackie, Amanda; Mackie, A; Mackie; Billington, Richard; Billington, R; Billington; Bonavides-Martínez, César; Bonavides-Martínez, C; Bonavides-Martínez; Caspi, Ron; Caspi, R; Caspi; Kothari, Anamika; Kothari, A; Kothari; Krummenacker, Markus; Krummenacker, M; Krummenacker; Midford, Peter E; Midford, PE; Midford; Muñiz-Rascado, Luis; Muñiz-Rascado, L; Muñiz-Rascado; Ong, Wai Kit; Ong, WK; Ong; Paley, Suzanne; Paley, S; Paley; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Subhraveti, Pallavi; Subhraveti, P; Subhraveti; Tierrafría, Víctor H; Tierrafría, VH; Tierrafría; Wolfe, Alan J; Wolfe, AJ; Wolfe; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Paulsen, Ian T; Paulsen, IT; Paulsen; Karp, Peter D; Karp, PD; Karp	Front Microbiol
34367203	ExoS/ChvI Two-Component Signal-Transduction System Activated in the Absence of Bacterial Phosphatidylcholine.	<i>Sinorhizobium meliloti</i> contains the negatively charged phosphatidylglycerol and cardiolipin as well as the zwitterionic phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) and phosphatidylcholine (PC) as major membrane phospholipids. In previous studies we had isolated <i>S. meliloti</i> mutants that lack PE or PC. Although mutants deficient in PE are able to form nitrogen-fixing nodules on alfalfa host plants, mutants lacking PC cannot sustain development of any nodules on host roots. Transcript profiles of mutants unable to form PE or PC are distinct; they differ from each other and they are different from the wild type profile. For example, a PC-deficient mutant of <i>S. meliloti</i> shows an increase of transcripts that encode enzymes required for succinoglycan biosynthesis and a decrease of transcripts required for flagellum formation. Indeed, a PC-deficient mutant is unable to swim and overproduces succinoglycan. Some suppressor mutants, that regain swimming and form normal levels of succinoglycan, are altered in the ExoS sensor. Our findings suggest that the lack of PC in the sinorhizobial membrane activates the ExoS/ChvI two-component regulatory system. ExoS/ChvI constitute a molecular switch in <i>S. meliloti</i> for changing from a free-living to a symbiotic life style. The periplasmic repressor protein ExoR controls ExoS/ChvI function and it is thought that proteolytic ExoR degradation would relieve repression of ExoS/ChvI thereby switching on this system. However, as ExoR levels are similar in wild type, PC-deficient mutant and suppressor mutants, we propose that lack of PC in the bacterial membrane provokes directly a conformational change of the ExoS sensor and thereby activation of the ExoS/ChvI two-component system.	2021	Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Vera-Cruz, Diana; Vera-Cruz, D; Vera-Cruz; Medeot, Daniela B; Medeot, DB; Medeot; Martínez-Aguilar, Lourdes; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar; Sahonero-Canavesi, Diana X; Sahonero-Canavesi, DX; Sahonero-Canavesi; Weidner, Stefan; Weidner, S; Weidner; Pühler, Alfred; Pühler, A; Pühler; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara	Front Plant Sci
34282943	Accessory Genomic Epidemiology of Cocirculating Acinetobacter baumannii Clones.	Acinetobacter baumannii has become one of the most important multidrug-resistant nosocomial pathogens all over the world. Nonetheless, very little is known about the diversity of A. baumannii lineages coexisting in hospital settings. Here, using whole-genome sequencing, epidemiological data, and antimicrobial susceptibility tests, we uncover the transmission dynamics of extensive and multidrug-resistant A. baumannii in a tertiary hospital over a decade. Our core genome phylogeny of almost 300 genomes suggests that there were several introductions of lineages from international clone 2 into the hospital. The molecular dating analysis shows that these introductions happened in 2006, 2007, and 2013. Furthermore, using the accessory genome, we show that these lineages were extensively disseminated across many wards in the hospital. Our results demonstrate that accessory genome variation can be a very powerful tool for conducting genomic epidemiology. We anticipate future studies employing the accessory genome along with the core genome as a powerful phylogenomic strategy to track bacterial transmissions over very short microevolutionary scales. <b>IMPORTANCE</b> Whole-genome sequencing for epidemiological investigations (genomic epidemiology) has been of paramount importance to understand the transmission dynamics of many bacterial (and nonbacterial) pathogens. Commonly, variation in the core genome, single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), is employed to carry out genomic epidemiology. However, at very short periods of time, the core genome might not have accumulated enough variation (sufficient SNPs) to tell apart isolates. In this scenario, gene content variation in the accessory genome can be an option to conduct genomic epidemiology. Here, we used the accessory genome, as well as the core genome, to uncover the transmission dynamics of extensive and multidrug-resistant A. baumannii in a tertiary hospital for a decade. Our study shows that accessory genome variation can be a very powerful tool for conducting genomic epidemiology.	2021 Aug	Mateo-Estrada, Valeria; Mateo-Estrada, V; Mateo-Estrada; Fernández-Vázquez, José Luis; Fernández-Vázquez, JL; Fernández-Vázquez; Moreno-Manjón, Julia; Moreno-Manjón, J; Moreno-Manjón; Hernández-González, Ismael L; Hernández-González, IL; Hernández-González; Rodríguez-Noriega, Eduardo; Rodríguez-Noriega, E; Rodríguez-Noriega; Morfín-Otero, Rayo; Morfín-Otero, R; Morfín-Otero; Alcántar-Curiel, María Dolores; Alcántar-Curiel, MD; Alcántar-Curiel; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez	mSystems
34203422	<i>Corynebacterium glutamicum</i> Regulation beyond Transcription: Organizing Principles and Reconstruction of an Extended Regulatory Network Incorporating Regulations Mediated by Small RNA and Protein-Protein Interactions.	<i>Corynebacterium glutamicum</i> is a Gram-positive bacterium found in soil where the condition changes demand plasticity of the regulatory machinery. The study of such machinery at the global scale has been challenged by the lack of data integration. Here, we report three regulatory network models for <i>C. glutamicum</i>: <i>strong</i> (3040 interactions) constructed solely with regulations previously supported by directed experiments; <i>all evidence</i> (4665 interactions) containing the <i>strong</i> network, regulations previously supported by nondirected experiments, and protein-protein interactions with a direct effect on gene transcription; <i>sRNA</i> (5222 interactions) containing the <i>all evidence</i> network and sRNA-mediated regulations. Compared to the previous version (2018), the <i>strong</i> and <i>all evidence</i> networks increased by 75 and 1225 interactions, respectively. We analyzed the system-level components of the three networks to identify how they differ and compared their structures against those for the networks of more than 40 species. The inclusion of the sRNA-mediated regulations changed the proportions of the system-level components and increased the number of modules but decreased their size. The <i>C. glutamicum</i> regulatory structure contrasted with other bacterial regulatory networks. Finally, we used the <i>strong</i> networks of three model organisms to provide insights and future directions of the <i>C.</i><i>glutamicum</i> regulatory network characterization.	2021 Jun	Escorcia-Rodríguez, Juan M; Escorcia-Rodríguez, JM; Escorcia-Rodríguez; Tauch, Andreas; Tauch, A; Tauch; Freyre-González, Julio A; Freyre-González, JA; Freyre-González	Microorganisms
34097872	Crossing the lipid divide.	Archaeal membrane lipids are structurally different from bacterial and eukaryotic membrane lipids, but little is known about the enzymes involved in their synthesis. In a recent study, Exterkate et al. identified and characterized a cardiolipin synthase from the archaeon Methanospirillum hungatei. This enzyme can synthesize archaeal, bacterial, and mixed archaeal/bacterial cardiolipin species from a wide variety of substrates, some of which are not even naturally occurring. This discovery could revolutionize synthetic lipid biology, being used to construct a variety of lipids with nonnatural head groups and mixed archaeal/bacterial hydrophobic chains.	2021 07	Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	J Biol Chem
33558688	Spatial patterns in phage-Rhizobium coevolutionary interactions across regions of common bean domestication.	Bacteriophages play significant roles in the composition, diversity, and evolution of bacterial communities. Despite their importance, it remains unclear how phage diversity and phage-host interactions are spatially structured. Local adaptation may play a key role. Nitrogen-fixing symbiotic bacteria, known as rhizobia, have been shown to locally adapt to domesticated common bean at its Mesoamerican and Andean sites of origin. This may affect phage-rhizobium interactions. However, knowledge about the diversity and coevolution of phages with their respective Rhizobium populations is lacking. Here, through the study of four phage-Rhizobium communities in Mexico and Argentina, we show that both phage and host diversity is spatially structured. Cross-infection experiments demonstrated that phage infection rates were higher overall in sympatric rhizobia than in allopatric rhizobia except for one Argentinean community, indicating phage local adaptation and host maladaptation. Phage-host interactions were shaped by the genetic identity and geographic origin of both the phage and the host. The phages ranged from specialists to generalists, revealing a nested network of interactions. Our results suggest a key role of local adaptation to resident host bacterial communities in shaping the phage genetic and phenotypic composition, following a similar spatial pattern of diversity and coevolution to that in the host.	2021 07	Van Cauwenberghe, Jannick; Van Cauwenberghe, J; Van Cauwenberghe; Santamaría, Rosa I; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Juárez, Soledad; Juárez, S; Juárez; Ducci, Maria Antonella; Ducci, MA; Ducci; Figueroa Fleming, Trinidad; Figueroa Fleming, T; Figueroa Fleming; Etcheverry, Angela Virginia; Etcheverry, AV; Etcheverry; González, Víctor; González, V; González	ISME J
34239533	Rhizobial Volatiles: Potential New Players in the Complex Interkingdom Signaling With Legumes.	Bacteria release a wide range of volatile compounds that play important roles in intermicrobial and interkingdom communication. Volatile metabolites emitted by rhizobacteria can promote plant growth and increase plant resistance to both biotic and abiotic stresses. Rhizobia establish beneficial nitrogen-fixing symbiosis with legume plants in a process starting with a chemical dialog in the rhizosphere involving various diffusible compounds. Despite being one of the most studied plant-interacting microorganisms, very little is known about volatile compounds produced by rhizobia and their biological/ecological role. Evidence indicates that plants can perceive and respond to volatiles emitted by rhizobia. In this perspective, we present recent data that open the possibility that rhizobial volatile compounds have a role in symbiotic interactions with legumes and discuss future directions that could shed light onto this area of investigation.	2021	Soto, María J; Soto, MJ; Soto; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Romero-Puertas, María C; Romero-Puertas, MC; Romero-Puertas; van Dillewijn, Pieter; van Dillewijn, P; van Dillewijn	Front Plant Sci
34211444	Respiratory Heme A-Containing Oxidases Originated in the Ancestors of Iron-Oxidizing Bacteria.	Respiration is a major trait shaping the biology of many environments. Cytochrome oxidase containing heme A (COX) is a common terminal oxidase in aerobic bacteria and is the only one in mammalian mitochondria. The synthesis of heme A is catalyzed by heme A synthase (CtaA/Cox15), an enzyme that most likely coevolved with COX. The evolutionary origin of COX in bacteria has remained unknown. Using extensive sequence and phylogenetic analysis, we show that the ancestral type of heme A synthases is present in iron-oxidizing Proteobacteria such as <i>Acidithiobacillus</i> spp. These bacteria also contain a deep branching form of the major COX subunit (COX1) and an ancestral variant of CtaG, a protein that is specifically required for COX biogenesis. Our work thus suggests that the ancestors of extant iron-oxidizers were the first to evolve COX. Consistent with this conclusion, acidophilic iron-oxidizing prokaryotes lived on emerged land around the time for which there is the earliest geochemical evidence of aerobic respiration on earth. Hence, ecological niches of iron oxidation have apparently promoted the evolution of aerobic respiration.	2021	Degli Esposti, Mauro; Degli Esposti, M; Degli Esposti; Moya-Beltrán, Ana; Moya-Beltrán, A; Moya-Beltrán; Quatrini, Raquel; Quatrini, R; Quatrini; Hederstedt, Lars; Hederstedt, L; Hederstedt	Front Microbiol
34163511	Control of the Rhizobia Nitrogen-Fixing Symbiosis by Common Bean MADS-Domain/AGL Transcription Factors.	Plants MADS-domain/AGL proteins constitute a large transcription factor (TF) family that controls the development of almost every plant organ. We performed a phylogeny of (<i>ca</i>. 500) MADS-domain proteins from Arabidopsis and four legume species. We identified clades with Arabidopsis MADS-domain proteins known to participate in root development that grouped legume MADS-proteins with similar high expression in roots and nodules. In this work, we analyzed the role of AGL transcription factors in the common bean (<i>Phaseolus vulgaris</i>) - <i>Rhizobium etli</i> N-fixing symbiosis. Sixteen <i>P. vulgaris AGL</i> genes (<i>PvAGL</i>), out of 93 family members, are expressed - at different levels - in roots and nodules. From there, we selected the <i>PvAGL</i> gene denominated <i>PvFUL</i>-like for overexpression or silencing in composite plants, with transgenic roots and nodules, that were used for phenotypic analysis upon inoculation with <i>Rhizobium etli</i>. Because of sequence identity in the DNA sequence used for RNAi-<i>FUL-</i>like construct, roots, and nodules expressing this construct -referred to as RNAi_<i>AGL</i>- showed lower expression of other five <i>PvAGL</i> genes highly expressed in roots/nodules. Contrasting with <i>PvFUL</i>-like overexpressing plants, rhizobia-inoculated plants expressing the RNAi_<i>AGL</i> silencing construct presented affection in the generation and growth of transgenic roots from composite plants, both under non-inoculated or rhizobia-inoculated condition. Furthermore, the rhizobia-inoculated plants showed decreased rhizobial infection concomitant with the lower expression level of early symbiotic genes and increased number of small, ineffective nodules that indicate an alteration in the autoregulation of the nodulation symbiotic process. We propose that the positive effects of PvAGL TF in the rhizobia symbiotic processes result from its potential interplay with NIN, the master symbiotic TF regulator, that showed a CArG-box consensus DNA sequence recognized for DNA binding of AGL TF and presented an increased or decreased expression level in roots from non-inoculated plants transformed with OE_<i>FUL</i> or RNAi_<i>AGL</i> construct, respectively. Our work contributes to defining novel transcriptional regulators for the common bean - rhizobia N-fixing symbiosis, a relevant process for sustainable agriculture.	2021	Ayra, Litzy; Ayra, L; Ayra; Reyero-Saavedra, María Del Rocio; Reyero-Saavedra, MDR; Reyero-Saavedra; Isidra-Arellano, Mariel C; Isidra-Arellano, MC; Isidra-Arellano; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Ramírez, Mario; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Leija, Alfonso; Leija, A; Leija; Fuentes, Sara-Isabel; Fuentes, SI; Fuentes; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Valdés-López, Oswaldo; Valdés-López, O; Valdés-López; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	Front Plant Sci
33846117	A Trigger Phosphodiesterase Modulates the Global c-di-GMP Pool, Motility, and Biofilm Formation in Vibrio parahaemolyticus.	Vibrio parahaemolyticus cells transit from free-swimming to surface adapted lifestyles, such as swarming colonies and three-dimensional biofilms. These transitions are regulated by sensory modules and regulatory networks that involve the second messenger cyclic diguanylate monophosphate (c-di-GMP). In this work, we show that a previously uncharacterized c-di-GMP phosphodiesterase (VP1881) from V. parahaemolyticus plays an important role in modulating the c-di-GMP pool. We found that the product of VP1881 promotes its own expression when the levels of c-di-GMP are low or when the phosphodiesterase (PDE) is catalytically inactive. This behavior has been observed in a class of c-di-GMP receptors called trigger phosphodiesterases, and hence we named the product of VP1881 TpdA, for <u>t</u>rigger <u>p</u>hospho<u>d</u>iesterase <u>A</u>. The absence of <i>tpdA</i> showed a negative effect on swimming motility while, its overexpression from an isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG)-inducible promoter showed a positive effect on both swimming and swarming motility and a negative effect on biofilm formation. Changes in TpdA abundance altered the expression of representative polar and lateral flagellar genes, as well as that of the biofilm-related gene <i>cpsA</i>. Our results also revealed that autoactivation of the native P<i><sub>tpdA</sub></i> promoter is sufficient to alter c-di-GMP signaling responses such as swarming and biofilm formation in V. parahaemolyticus, an observation that could have important implications in the dynamics of these social behaviors. <b>IMPORTANCE</b> c-di-GMP trigger phosphodiesterases (PDEs) could play a key role in controlling the heterogeneity of biofilm matrix composition, a property that endows characteristics that are potentially relevant for sustaining integrity and functionality of biofilms in a variety of natural environments. Trigger PDEs are not always easy to identify based on their sequence, and hence not many examples of these type of signaling proteins have been reported in the literature. Here, we report on the identification of a novel trigger PDE in V. parahaemolyticus and provide evidence suggesting that its autoactivation could play an important role in the progression of swarming motility and biofilm formation, multicellular behaviors that are important for the survival and dissemination of this environmental pathogen.	2021 06	Martínez-Méndez, Raquel; Martínez-Méndez, R; Martínez-Méndez; Camacho-Hernández, Diego A; Camacho-Hernández, DA; Camacho-Hernández; Sulvarán-Guel, Elizabeth; Sulvarán-Guel, E; Sulvarán-Guel; Zamorano-Sánchez, David; Zamorano-Sánchez, D; Zamorano-Sánchez	J Bacteriol
33930111	The influence of maize genotype on the rhizosphere eukaryotic community.	The microbiota colonizing the rhizosphere contributes to plant growth, productivity, carbon sequestration and phytoremediation. Several studies address plant-associated bacteria; however, few studies analyze the effect of plant genotype on the eukaryotic community. Here, we analyzed the eukaryotic composition of maize rhizosphere from three different plant landraces and one inbred line grown in the same soil (common garden approach). This experimental design, coupled with 18S rDNA gene amplicon sequencing, allowed us to test the influence of maize and its genotype on the rhizosphere's eukaryotic community. We found that plant growth modified the eukaryotic community in soil, as diversity comparisons between maize rhizosphere and unplanted soil revealed significantly different eukaryotic composition. Various genera of nematodes and fungi, predominantly bacterial feeding nematodes and mycorrhizal fungi among other taxa, were increased in the rhizosphere samples. We also observed that maize genotype differentially shaped the relative abundance of the following fungal families in the rhizosphere: Acaulosporaceae, Aspergillaceae, Chaetomiaceae, Claroideoglomeraceae, Corticiaceae, Mortierellaceae, Trichocomaceae and Trichomeriaceae. Thus, plant genotype has a selective influence on establishing fungal communities in the rhizosphere. This study emphasizes the importance of an integrated consideration of plant genetics for future agricultural applications of microbes to crops.	2021 05	Matus-Acuña, Violeta; Matus-Acuña, V; Matus-Acuña; Caballero-Flores, Gustavo; Caballero-Flores, G; Caballero-Flores; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	FEMS Microbiol Ecol
33635432	A novel vieuvirus from multidrug-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii.	Bacteriophages are considered the most abundant biological entities on earth, and they are able to modulate the populations of their bacterial hosts. Although the potential of bacteriophages has been accepted as an alternative strategy to combat multidrug-resistant pathogenic bacteria, there still exists a considerable knowledge gap regarding their genetic diversity, which hinders their use as antimicrobial agents. In this study, we undertook a genomic and phylogenetic characterization of the phage Ab11510-phi, which was isolated from a multidrug-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii strain (Ab11510). We found that Ab11510-phi has a narrow host range and belongs to a small group of transposable phages of the genus Vieuvirus that have only been reported to infect Acinetobacter bacteria. Finally, we showed that Ab11510-phi (as well as other vieuvirus phages) has a high level of mosaicism. On a broader level, we demonstrate that comparative genomics and phylogenetic analysis are necessary tools for the proper characterization of phage diversity.	2021 May	López-Leal, Gamaliel; López-Leal, G; López-Leal; Reyes-Muñoz, Alejandro; Reyes-Muñoz, A; Reyes-Muñoz; Santamaria, Rosa Isela; Santamaria, RI; Santamaria; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Pérez-Monter, Carlos; Pérez-Monter, C; Pérez-Monter; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez	Arch Virol
33893080	Effect of HPV 16 E6 Oncoprotein Variants on the Alterations of the Proteome of C33A Cells.	The E6 genotypic variants of HPV 16 identified in lesions of women with cervical cancer (CC) in Southern of Mexico include the E-G350, AAa, AAc, E-C188/G350, and E-A176/G350, transcriptomic analysis cells transfected with those variants showed to induce differential expression of the host genes involved in the development of CC, the aim of this work was to understand how the over-expression of the E6 oncoprotein and its variants can induce molecular mechanisms that lead to more aggressive HPV 16 phenotypes in cervical cancer and which proteins could be associated with the process.	2021 May-Jun	Garibay-Cerdenares, Olga Lilia; Garibay-Cerdenares, OL; Garibay-Cerdenares; Sánchez-Meza, Luz Victoria; Sánchez-Meza, LV; Sánchez-Meza; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Hernández-Ortíz, Magdalena; Hernández-Ortíz, M; Hernández-Ortíz; Martínez-Batallar, Gabriel; Martínez-Batallar, G; Martínez-Batallar; Torres-Rojas, Francisco Israel; Torres-Rojas, FI; Torres-Rojas; Mendoza-Catalán, Miguel Ángel; Mendoza-Catalán, MÁ; Mendoza-Catalán; Moral-Hernández, Oscar Del; Moral-Hernández, OD; Moral-Hernández; Leyva-Vázquez, Marco Antonio; Leyva-Vázquez, MA; Leyva-Vázquez; Illades-Aguiar, Berenice; Illades-Aguiar, B; Illades-Aguiar	Cancer Genomics Proteomics
34066536	Gadolinium Protects <i>Arabidopsis thaliana</i> against <i>Botrytis cinerea</i> through the Activation of JA/ET-Induced Defense Responses.	Plant food production is severely affected by fungi; to cope with this problem, farmers use synthetic fungicides. However, the need to reduce fungicide application has led to a search for alternatives, such as biostimulants. Rare-earth elements (REEs) are widely used as biostimulants, but their mode of action and their potential as an alternative to synthetic fungicides have not been fully studied. Here, the biostimulant effect of gadolinium (Gd) is explored using the plant-pathosystem <i>Arabidopsis thaliana</i>-<i>Botrytis cinerea.</i> We determine that Gd induces local, systemic, and long-lasting plant defense responses to <i>B. cinerea</i>, without affecting fungal development. The physiological changes induced by Gd have been related to its structural resemblance to calcium. However, our results show that the calcium-induced defense response is not sufficient to protect plants against <i>B. cinerea</i>, compared to Gd. Furthermore, a genome-wide transcriptomic analysis shows that Gd induces plant defenses and modifies early and late defense responses. However, the resistance to <i>B. cinerea</i> is dependent on JA/ET-induced responses. These data support the conclusion that Gd can be used as a biocontrol agent for <i>B. cinerea</i>. These results are a valuable tool to uncover the molecular mechanisms induced by REEs.	2021 May	Batista-Oliveira, Juliana Santos; Batista-Oliveira, JS; Batista-Oliveira; Formey, Damien; Formey, D; Formey; Torres, Martha; Torres, M; Torres; Aragón, Wendy; Aragón, W; Aragón; Romero-Contreras, Yordan Jhovani; Romero-Contreras, YJ; Romero-Contreras; Maruri-López, Israel; Maruri-López, I; Maruri-López; Tromas, Alexandre; Tromas, A; Tromas; Schwan-Estrada, Kátia Regina Freitas; Schwan-Estrada, KRF; Schwan-Estrada; Serrano, Mario; Serrano, M; Serrano	Int J Mol Sci
33626217	Identification of the Flavobacterium johnsoniae cysteate-fatty acyl transferase required for capnine synthesis and for efficient gliding motility.	Sulfonolipids (SLs) are bacterial lipids that are structurally related to sphingolipids. Synthesis of this group of lipids seems to be mainly restricted to Flavobacterium, Cytophaga and other members of the phylum Bacteroidetes. These lipids have a wide range of biological activities: they can induce multicellularity in choanoflagellates, act as von Willebrand factor receptor antagonists, inhibit DNA polymerase, or function as tumour suppressing agents. In Flavobacterium johnsoniae, their presence seems to be required for efficient gliding motility. Until now, no genes/enzymes involved in SL synthesis have been identified, which has been limiting for the study of some of the biological effects these lipids have. Here, we describe the identification of the cysteate-fatty acyl transferase Fjoh_2419 required for synthesis of the SL precursor capnine in F. johnsoniae. This enzyme belongs to the α-oxoamine synthase family similar to serine palmitoyl transferases, 2-amino-3-oxobutyrate coenzyme A ligase and 8-amino-7-oxononanoate synthases. Expression of the gene fjoh_2419 in Escherichia coli caused the formation of a capnine-derived molecule. Flavobacterium johnsoniae mutants deficient in fjoh_2419 lacked SLs and were more sensitive to many antibiotics. Mutant growth was not affected in liquid medium but the cells exhibited defects in gliding motility.	2021 05	Vences-Guzmán, Miguel Ángel; Vences-Guzmán, MÁ; Vences-Guzmán; Peña-Miller, Rafael; Peña-Miller, R; Peña-Miller; Hidalgo-Aguilar, Nancy Adriana; Hidalgo-Aguilar, NA; Hidalgo-Aguilar; Vences-Guzmán, Maritza Lorena; Vences-Guzmán, ML; Vences-Guzmán; Guan, Ziqiang; Guan, Z; Guan; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	Environ Microbiol
33922604	Molecular Detection and Characterization of Porcine Epidemic Diarrhea Virus and Porcine Aichivirus C Coinfection in México.	Swine enteric viral infections are responsible for substantial economic losses in the pork industry worldwide. Porcine epidemic diarrhea (PEDV) is one of the main causative agents of diarrhea in lactating pigs, and reports of PEDV coinfection with other enteric viruses highlight the importance of viral interactions for disease presentation and outcomes. Using next-generation sequencing (NGS) and sequence analyses from samples taken from piglets with acute diarrhea, we explored the possible interactions between PEDV and other less reported pathogens. PEDV coinfection with porcine kobuvirus (PKV) was detected in 36.4% (27/74) of samples. Full genomes from porcine coronavirus and kobuvirus were obtained, as was a partial porcine sapovirus genome (PSaV). The phylogenetic results show the clustering of these strains corresponding to the geographical relationship. To our knowledge, this is the first full genome and isolation report for porcine kobuvirus in México, as well as the first phylogenetic analysis for porcine sapovirus in the country. The NGS approach provides a better perspective of circulating viruses and other pathogens in affected production units.	2021 04	García-Hernández, Montserrat-Elemi; García-Hernández, ME; García-Hernández; Trujillo-Ortega, María-Elena; Trujillo-Ortega, ME; Trujillo-Ortega; Alcaraz-Estrada, Sofía-Lizbeth; Alcaraz-Estrada, SL; Alcaraz-Estrada; Lozano-Aguirre-Beltrán, Luis; Lozano-Aguirre-Beltrán, L; Lozano-Aguirre-Beltrán; Sandoval-Jaime, Carlos; Sandoval-Jaime, C; Sandoval-Jaime; Taboada-Ramírez, Blanca Itzel; Taboada-Ramírez, BI; Taboada-Ramírez; Sarmiento-Silva, Rosa-Elena; Sarmiento-Silva, RE; Sarmiento-Silva	Viruses
34067853	Physiological and Genomic Analysis of <i>Bacillus pumilus</i> UAMX Isolated from the Gastrointestinal Tract of Overweight Individuals.	The study aimed to evaluate the metabolism and resistance to the gastrointestinal tract conditions of <i>Bacillus pumilus</i> UAMX (BP-UAMX) isolated from overweight individuals using genomic tools. Specifically, we assessed its ability to metabolize various carbon sources, its resistance to low pH exposure, and its growth in the presence of bile salts. The genomic and bioinformatic analyses included the prediction of gene and protein metabolic functions, a pan-genome and phylogenomic analysis. BP-UAMX survived at pH 3, while bile salts (0.2-0.3% <i>w/v</i>) increased its growth rate. Moreover, it showed the ability to metabolize simple and complex carbon sources (glucose, starch, carboxymethyl-cellulose, inulin, and tributyrin), showing a differentiated electrophoretic profile. Genome was assembled into a single contig, with a high percentage of genes and proteins associated with the metabolism of amino acids, carbohydrates, and lipids. Antibiotic resistance genes were detected, but only one beta-Lactam resistance protein related to the inhibition of peptidoglycan biosynthesis was identified. The pan-genome of BP-UAMX is still open with phylogenetic similarities with other <i>Bacillus</i> of human origin. Therefore, BP-UAMX seems to be adapted to the intestinal environment, with physiological and genomic analyses demonstrating the ability to metabolize complex carbon sources, the strain has an open pan-genome with continuous evolution and adaptation.	2021 May	Reyes-Cortes, José Luis; Reyes-Cortes, JL; Reyes-Cortes; Azaola-Espinosa, Alejandro; Azaola-Espinosa, A; Azaola-Espinosa; Lozano-Aguirre, Luis; Lozano-Aguirre, L; Lozano-Aguirre; Ponce-Alquicira, Edith; Ponce-Alquicira, E; Ponce-Alquicira	Microorganisms
33925391	The Population Structure of <i>Borrelia lusitaniae</i> Is Reflected by a Population Division of Its <i>Ixodes</i> Vector.	Populations of vector-borne pathogens are shaped by the distribution and movement of vector and reservoir hosts. To study what impact host and vector association have on tick-borne pathogens, we investigated the population structure of <i>Borrelia lusitaniae</i> using multilocus sequence typing (MLST). Novel sequences were acquired from questing ticks collected in multiple North African and European locations and were supplemented by publicly available sequences at the Borrelia Pubmlst database (accessed on 11 February 2020). Population structure of <i>B. lusitaniae</i> was inferred using clustering and network analyses. Maximum likelihood phylogenies for two molecular tick markers (the mitochondrial 16S rRNA locus and a nuclear locus, Tick-receptor of outer surface protein A, <i>trospA</i>) were used to confirm the morphological species identification of collected ticks. Our results confirmed that <i>B. lusitaniae</i> does indeed form two distinguishable populations: one containing mostly European samples and the other mostly Portuguese and North African samples. Of interest, Portuguese samples clustered largely based on being from north (European) or south (North African) of the river Targus. As two different <i>Ixodes</i> species (i.e., <i>I. ricinus</i> and <i>I. inopinatus</i>) may vector <i>Borrelia</i> in these regions, reference samples were included for <i>I. inopinatus</i> but did not form monophyletic clades in either tree, suggesting some misidentification. Even so, the <i>trospA</i> phylogeny showed a monophyletic clade containing tick samples from Northern Africa and Portugal south of the river Tagus suggesting a population division in <i>Ixodes</i> on this locus. The pattern mirrored the clustering of <i>B. lusitaniae</i> samples, suggesting a potential co-evolution between tick and <i>Borrelia</i> populations that deserve further investigation.	2021 Apr	Norte, Ana Cláudia; Norte, AC; Norte; Boyer, Pierre H; Boyer, PH; Boyer; Castillo-Ramirez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramirez, S; Castillo-Ramirez; Chvostáč, Michal; Chvostáč, M; Chvostáč; Brahami, Mohand O; Brahami, MO; Brahami; Rollins, Robert E; Rollins, RE; Rollins; Woudenberg, Tom; Woudenberg, T; Woudenberg; Didyk, Yuliya M; Didyk, YM; Didyk; Derdakova, Marketa; Derdakova, M; Derdakova; Núncio, Maria Sofia; Núncio, MS; Núncio; Carvalho, Isabel Lopes de; Carvalho, IL; Carvalho; Margos, Gabriele; Margos, G; Margos; Fingerle, Volker; Fingerle, V; Fingerle	Microorganisms
33819302	Probability of consolidation constrains novel serotype emergence in dengue fever virus.	Since their first sequencing 40 years ago, Dengue virus (DENV) genotypes have shown extreme coherence regarding the serotype class they encode. Considering that DENV is a ribonucleic acid (RNA) virus with a high mutation rate, this behavior is intriguing. Here, we explore the effect of various parameters on likelihood of new serotype emergence. In order to determine the time scales of such an event, we used a Timed Markov Transmission Model to explore the influences of sylvatic versus peri-urban transmission, viral mutation rate, and vertical transmission on the probabilities of novel serotype emergence. We found that around 1 000 years are required for a new serotype to emerge, consistent with phylogenetic analysis of extant dengue serotypes. Furthermore, we show that likelihood of establishing chains of mosquito-human-mosquito infection, known as consolidation, is the primary factor which constrains novel serotype emergence. Our work illustrates the restrictions on and provides a mechanistic explanation for the low probability of novel dengue virus serotype emergence and the low number of observed DENV serotypes.	2021	Sánchez-González, Gilberto; Sánchez-González, G; Sánchez-González; Belak, Zachery R; Belak, ZR; Belak; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Condé, Renaud; Condé, R; Condé	PLoS One
33854491	The CRISPR-Cas System Is Involved in OmpR Genetic Regulation for Outer Membrane Protein Synthesis in <i>Salmonella</i> Typhi.	The CRISPR-Cas cluster is found in many prokaryotic genomes including those of the Enterobacteriaceae family. <i>Salmonella enterica</i> serovar Typhi (<i>S</i>. Typhi) harbors a Type I-E CRISPR-Cas locus composed of <i>cas3</i>, <i>cse1</i>, <i>cse2</i>, <i>cas7</i>, <i>cas5</i>, <i>cas6e</i>, <i>cas1</i>, <i>cas2</i>, and a CRISPR1 array. In this work, it was determined that, in the absence of <i>cas5</i> or <i>cas2</i>, the amount of the OmpC porin decreased substantially, whereas in individual <i>cse2</i>, <i>cas6e</i>, <i>cas1</i>, or <i>cas3</i> null mutants, the OmpF porin was not observed in an electrophoretic profile of outer membrane proteins. Furthermore, the LysR-type transcriptional regulator LeuO was unable to positively regulate the expression of the quiescent OmpS2 porin, in individual <i>S</i>. Typhi <i>cse2</i>, <i>cas5</i>, <i>cas6e</i>, <i>cas1</i>, <i>cas2</i>, and <i>cas3</i> mutants. Remarkably, the expression of the master porin regulator OmpR was dependent on the Cse2, Cas5, Cas6e, Cas1, Cas2, and Cas3 proteins. Therefore, the data suggest that the CRISPR-Cas system acts hierarchically on OmpR to control the synthesis of outer membrane proteins in <i>S</i>. Typhi.	2021	Medina-Aparicio, Liliana; Medina-Aparicio, L; Medina-Aparicio; Rodriguez-Gutierrez, Sarahí; Rodriguez-Gutierrez, S; Rodriguez-Gutierrez; Rebollar-Flores, Javier E; Rebollar-Flores, JE; Rebollar-Flores; Martínez-Batallar, Ángel G; Martínez-Batallar, ÁG; Martínez-Batallar; Mendoza-Mejía, Blanca D; Mendoza-Mejía, BD; Mendoza-Mejía; Aguirre-Partida, Eira D; Aguirre-Partida, ED; Aguirre-Partida; Vázquez, Alejandra; Vázquez, A; Vázquez; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Calva, Edmundo; Calva, E; Calva; Hernández-Lucas, Ismael; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas	Front Microbiol
33815312	Diversity of <i>Weissella confusa</i> in <i>Pozol</i> and Its Carbohydrate Metabolism.	The genus <i>Weissella</i> is composed of a group of Gram-positive facultative anaerobe bacteria with fermentative metabolism. Strains of this genus have been isolated from various ecological niches, including a wide variety of fermented cereal foods. The present study aimed to determine the relative abundance and fermentation capabilities of <i>Weissella</i> species isolated from <i>pozol</i>, a traditional <i>maya</i> product made of lime-cooked (nixtamalized) fermented maize. We sequenced the V3-V4 regions of 16S rDNA; <i>Weissella</i> was detected early in the fermentation process and reached its highest relative abundance (3.89%) after 3 h of culture. In addition, we evaluated five <i>Weissella</i> strains previously isolated from <i>pozol</i> but reported as non-amylolytic, to define alternative carbon sources such as xylan, xylooligosaccharides, and sucrose. While no growth was observed on birch xylan, growth did occur on xylooligosaccharides and sucrose. Strains WcL17 and WCP-3A were selected for genomic sequencing, as the former shows efficient growth on xylooligosaccharides and the latter displays high glycosyltransferase (GTF) activity. Genomes of both strains were assembled and recorded, with a total of 2.3 Mb in 30 contigs for WcL17 and 2.2 Mb in 45 contigs for WCP-3a. Both strains were taxonomically assigned to <i>Weissella confusa</i> and genomic analyses were performed to evaluate the gene products encoding active carbohydrate enzymes (CAZy). Both strains have the gene content needed to metabolize sucrose, hemicellulose, cellulose, and starch residues, all available in <i>pozol</i>. Our results suggest that the range of secondary enzymatic activity in <i>Weissella confusa</i> strains confer them with wide capabilities to participate in fermentative processes of natural products with heterogeneous carbon sources.	2021	Hernández-Oaxaca, Diana; Hernández-Oaxaca, D; Hernández-Oaxaca; López-Sánchez, Rafael; López-Sánchez, R; López-Sánchez; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Wacher-Rodarte, Carmen; Wacher-Rodarte, C; Wacher-Rodarte; Segovia, Lorenzo; Segovia, L; Segovia; López Munguía, Agustín; López Munguía, A; López Munguía	Front Microbiol
33717711	Differential gene expression in a tripartite interaction: <i>Drosophila</i>, <i>Spiroplasma</i> and parasitic wasps.	Several facultative bacterial symbionts of insects protect their hosts against natural enemies. <i>Spiroplasma poulsonii</i> strain <i>s</i>Mel (hereafter <i>Spiroplasma</i>), a male-killing heritable symbiont of <i>Drosophila melanogaster</i>, confers protection against some species of parasitic wasps. Several lines of evidence suggest that <i>Spiroplasma</i>-encoded ribosome inactivating proteins (RIPs) are involved in the protection mechanism, but the potential contribution of the fly-encoded functions (e.g., immune response), has not been deeply explored.	2021	Higareda Alvear, Victor Manuel; Higareda Alvear, VM; Higareda Alvear; Mateos, Mariana; Mateos, M; Mateos; Cortez, Diego; Cortez, D; Cortez; Tamborindeguy, Cecilia; Tamborindeguy, C; Tamborindeguy; Martinez-Romero, Esperanza; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero	PeerJ
33800466	A Comparative Genomic Study of Attenuated and Virulent Strains of <i>Babesia bigemina</i>.	Cattle babesiosis is a socio-economically important tick-borne disease caused by Apicomplexa protozoa of the genus <i>Babesia</i> that are obligate intraerythrocytic parasites. The pathogenicity of <i>Babesia</i> parasites for cattle is determined by the interaction with the host immune system and the presence of the parasite's virulence genes. A <i>Babesia bigemina</i> strain that has been maintained under a microaerophilic stationary phase in in vitro culture conditions for several years in the laboratory lost virulence for the bovine host and the capacity for being transmitted by the tick vector. In this study, we compared the virulome of the in vitro culture attenuated <i>Babesia bigemina</i> strain (S) and the virulent tick transmitted parental Mexican <i>B. bigemina</i> strain (M). Preliminary results obtained by using the Basic Local Alignment Search Tool (BLAST) showed that out of 27 virulence genes described and analyzed in the <i>B. bigemina</i> virulent tick transmitted strain, only five were fully identified in the attenuated laboratory strain. In all cases, the identity and coverture of the identified genes of the wildtype strain were higher than those of the laboratory strain. This finding is putatively associated with the continuous partial loss of virulence genes in the laboratory strain after several passages of the parasite population under optimal in vitro growth conditions. The loss of virulence factors might be reflected in the absence of symptoms of the disease in cattle inoculated with the attenuated strain despite the presence of infection in the bovine host cells.	2021 Mar	Sachman-Ruiz, Bernardo; Sachman-Ruiz, B; Sachman-Ruiz; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Lira, José J; Lira, JJ; Lira; Martínez, Grecia; Martínez, G; Martínez; Rojas, Carmen; Rojas, C; Rojas; Álvarez, J Antonio; Álvarez, JA; Álvarez; Figueroa, Julio V; Figueroa, JV; Figueroa	Pathogens
33730068	High-throughput transcriptome sequencing and comparative analysis of Escherichia coli and Schizosaccharomyces pombe in respiratory and fermentative growth.	In spite of increased complexity in eukaryotes compared to prokaryotes, several basic metabolic and regulatory processes are conserved. Here we explored analogies in the eubacteria Escherichia coli and the unicellular fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe transcriptomes under two carbon sources: 2% glucose; or a mix of 2% glycerol and 0.2% sodium acetate using the same growth media and growth phase. Overall, twelve RNA-seq libraries were constructed. A total of 593 and 860 genes were detected as differentially expressed for E. coli and S. pombe, respectively, with a log2 of the Fold Change ≥ 1 and False Discovery Rate ≤ 0.05. In aerobic glycolysis, most of the expressed genes were associated with cell proliferation in both organisms, including amino acid metabolism and glycolysis. In contrast in glycerol/acetate condition, genes related to flagellar assembly and membrane proteins were differentially expressed such as the general transcription factors fliA, flhD, flhC, and flagellum assembly genes were detected in E. coli, whereas in S. pombe genes for hexose transporters, integral membrane proteins, galactose metabolism, and ncRNAs related to cellular stress were overexpressed. In general, our study shows that a conserved "foraging behavior" response is observed in these eukaryotic and eubacterial organisms in gluconeogenic carbon sources.	2021	Vichi, Joivier; Vichi, J; Vichi; Salazar, Emmanuel; Salazar, E; Salazar; Jacinto, Verónica Jiménez; Jacinto, VJ; Jacinto; Rodriguez, Leticia Olvera; Rodriguez, LO; Rodriguez; Grande, Ricardo; Grande, R; Grande; Dantán-González, Edgar; Dantán-González, E; Dantán-González; Morett, Enrique; Morett, E; Morett; Hernández-Mendoza, Armando; Hernández-Mendoza, A; Hernández-Mendoza	PLoS One
33300202	Phaseolus vulgaris MIR1511 genotypic variations differentially regulate plant tolerance to aluminum toxicity.	The common-bean (Phaseolus vulgaris), a widely consumed legume, originated in Mesoamerica and expanded to South America, resulting in the development of two geographically distinct gene pools. Poor soil condition, including metal toxicity, are often constraints to common-bean crop production. Several P. vulgaris miRNAs, including miR1511, respond to metal toxicity. The MIR1511 gene sequence from the two P. vulgaris model sequenced genotypes revealed that, as opposed to BAT93 (Mesoamerican), the G19833 (Andean) accession displays a 58-bp deletion, comprising the mature and star miR1511 sequences. Genotyping-By-Sequencing data analysis from 87 non-admixed Phaseolus genotypes, comprising different Phaseolus species and P. vulgaris populations, revealed that all the P. vulgaris Andean genotypes and part of the Mesoamerican (MW1) genotypes analyzed displayed a truncated MIR1511 gene. The geographic origin of genotypes with a complete versus truncated MIR1511 showed a distinct distribution. The P. vulgaris ALS3 (Aluminum Sensitive Protein 3) gene, known to be important for aluminum detoxification in several plants, was experimentally validated as the miR1511 target. Roots from BAT93 plants showed decreased miR1511 and increased ALS3 transcript levels at early stages under aluminum toxicity (AlT), while G19833 plants, lacking mature miR1511, showed higher and earlier ALS3 response. Root architecture analyses evidenced higher tolerance of G19833 plants to AlT. However, G19833 plants engineered for miR1511 overexpression showed lower ALS3 transcript level and increased sensitivity to AlT. Absence of miR1511 in Andean genotypes, resulting in a diminished ALS3 transcript degradation, appears to be an evolutionary advantage to high Al levels in soils with increased drought conditions.	2021 03	Ángel Martín-Rodríguez, Jose; Ángel Martín-Rodríguez, J; Ángel Martín-Rodríguez; Ariani, Andrea; Ariani, A; Ariani; Leija, Alfonso; Leija, A; Leija; Elizondo, Armando; Elizondo, A; Elizondo; Fuentes, Sara I; Fuentes, SI; Fuentes; Ramirez, Mario; Ramirez, M; Ramirez; Gepts, Paul; Gepts, P; Gepts; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Formey, Damien; Formey, D; Formey	Plant J
33412274	Proteomic comparison of biofilm vs. planktonic Staphylococcus epidermidis cells suggests key metabolic differences between these conditions.	Previous studies have shown that biofilm-forming bacteria are deficient in tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle metabolites, suggesting a relationship between these cellular processes. In this work, we compared the proteomes of planktonic vs biofilm cells from a clinical strain of Staphylococcus epidermidis using LC-MS/MS. A total of 168 proteins were identified from both growth conditions. The biofilm cells showed enrichment of proteins participating in glycolysis for the formation of pyruvate; however, the absence of TCA cycle proteins and the presence of lactate dehydrogenase, formate acetyltransferase, and acetoin reductase suggested that pyruvate was catabolized to their respective products: lactate, formate and acetoin. On the other hand, planktonic cells showed proteins participating in glycolysis and the TCA cycle, the pentose phosphate pathway, gluconeogenesis, ATP generation and the oxidative stress response. Functional networks with higher interconnection were predicted for planktonic proteins. We propose that in S. epidermidis, the relative absence of TCA cycle proteins is associated with the formation of biofilms and that lactate, formate and acetoin are the end products of partial glucose metabolism.	2021 Mar	Martínez-García, Sergio; Martínez-García, S; Martínez-García; Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta; Betanzos-Cabrera, Gabriel; Betanzos-Cabrera, G; Betanzos-Cabrera; Chavez-Galan, Leslie; Chavez-Galan, L; Chavez-Galan; Rodríguez-Martínez, Sandra; Rodríguez-Martínez, S; Rodríguez-Martínez; Cancino-Diaz, Mario E; Cancino-Diaz, ME; Cancino-Diaz; Cancino-Diaz, Juan C; Cancino-Diaz, JC; Cancino-Diaz	Res Microbiol
33643369	Exopolysaccharide Characterization of <i>Rhizobium favelukesii</i> LPU83 and Its Role in the Symbiosis With Alfalfa.	One of the greatest inputs of available nitrogen into the biosphere occurs through the biological N<sub>2</sub>-fixation to ammonium as result of the symbiosis between rhizobia and leguminous plants. These interactions allow increased crop yields on nitrogen-poor soils. Exopolysaccharides (EPS) are key components for the establishment of an effective symbiosis between alfalfa and <i>Ensifer meliloti</i>, as bacteria that lack EPS are unable to infect the host plants. <i>Rhizobium favelukesii</i> LPU83 is an acid-tolerant rhizobia strain capable of nodulating alfalfa but inefficient to fix nitrogen. Aiming to identify the molecular determinants that allow <i>R. favelukesii</i> to infect plants, we studied its EPS biosynthesis. LPU83 produces an EPS I identical to the one present in <i>E. meliloti</i>, but the organization of the genes involved in its synthesis is different. The main gene cluster needed for the synthesis of EPS I in <i>E. meliloti</i>, is split into three different sections in <i>R. favelukesii</i>, which probably arose by a recent event of horizontal gene transfer. A <i>R. favelukesii</i> strain devoided of all the genes needed for the synthesis of EPS I is still able to infect and nodulate alfalfa, suggesting that attention should be directed to other molecules involved in the development of the symbiosis.	2021	Castellani, Lucas G; Castellani, LG; Castellani; Luchetti, Abril; Luchetti, A; Luchetti; Nilsson, Juliet F; Nilsson, JF; Nilsson; Pérez-Giménez, Julieta; Pérez-Giménez, J; Pérez-Giménez; Wegener, Caren; Wegener, C; Wegener; Schlüter, Andreas; Schlüter, A; Schlüter; Pühler, Alfred; Pühler, A; Pühler; Lagares, Antonio; Lagares, A; Lagares; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; Pistorio, Mariano; Pistorio, M; Pistorio; Niehaus, Karsten; Niehaus, K; Niehaus; Torres Tejerizo, Gonzalo A; Torres Tejerizo, GA; Torres Tejerizo	Front Plant Sci
33531404	A Novel Group of Promiscuous Podophages Infecting Diverse Gammaproteobacteria from River Communities Exhibits Dynamic Intergenus Host Adaptation.	Phages are generally described as species specific or even strain specific, implying an inherent limitation for some to be maintained and spread in diverse bacterial communities. Moreover, phage isolation and host range determination rarely consider the phage ecological context, likely biasing our notion on phage specificity. Here we isolated and characterized a novel group of six promiscuous phages, named Atoyac, existing in rivers and sewage by using a diverse collection of over 600 bacteria retrieved from the same environments as potential hosts. These podophages isolated from different regions in Mexico display a remarkably broad host range, infecting bacteria from six genera: <i>Aeromonas</i>, <i>Pseudomonas</i>, <i>Yersinia</i>, <i>Hafnia</i>, <i>Escherichia</i>, and <i>Serratia</i> Atoyac phage genomes are ∼42 kb long and highly similar to each other, but not to those currently available in genome and metagenome public databases. Detailed comparison of the phages' efficiency of plating (EOP) revealed variation among bacterial genera, implying a cost associated with infection of distant hosts, and between phages, despite their sequence similarity. We show, through experimental evolution in single or alternate hosts of different genera, that efficiency of plaque production is highly dynamic and tends toward optimization in hosts rendering low plaque formation. However, adaptation to distinct hosts differed between similar phages; whereas one phage optimized its EOP in all tested hosts, the other reduced plaque production in one host, suggesting that propagation in multiple bacteria may be key to maintain promiscuity in some viruses. Our study expands our knowledge of the virosphere and uncovers bacterium-phage interactions overlooked in natural systems.<b>IMPORTANCE</b> In natural environments, phages coexist and interact with a broad variety of bacteria, posing a conundrum for narrow-host-range phage maintenance in diverse communities. This context is rarely considered in the study of host-phage interactions, typically focused on narrow-host-range viruses and their infectivity in target bacteria isolated from sources distinct to where the phages were retrieved from. By studying phage-host interactions in bacteria and viruses isolated from river microbial communities, we show that novel phages with promiscuous host range encompassing multiple bacterial genera can be found in the environment. Assessment of hundreds of interactions in diverse hosts revealed that similar phages exhibit different infection efficiency and adaptation patterns. Understanding host range is fundamental in our knowledge of bacterium-phage interactions and their impact on microbial communities. The dynamic nature of phage promiscuity revealed in our study has implications in different aspects of phage research such as horizontal gene transfer or phage therapy.	2021 Feb	Cazares, Daniel; Cazares, D; Cazares; Cazares, Adrian; Cazares, A; Cazares; Figueroa, Wendy; Figueroa, W; Figueroa; Guarneros, Gabriel; Guarneros, G; Guarneros; Edwards, Robert A; Edwards, RA; Edwards; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa	mSystems
33469548	Ornithine Lipids in <i>Burkholderia</i> spp. Pathogenicity.	The genus <i>Burkholderia</i> sensu lato is composed of a diverse and metabolically versatile group of bacterial species. One characteristic thought to be unique for the genus <i>Burkholderia</i> is the presence of two forms each (with and without 2-hydroxylation) of the membrane lipids phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) and ornithine lipids (OLs). Here, we show that only <i>Burkholderia</i> sensu stricto strains constitutively form OLs, whereas all other analyzed strains belonging to the <i>Burkholderia</i> sensu lato group constitutively form the two forms of PE, but no OLs. We selected two model bacteria to study the function of OL in <i>Burkholderia</i> sensu lato: (1) <i>Burkholderia cenocepacia</i> wild-type which constitutively forms OLs and its mutant deficient in the formation of OLs and (2) <i>Robbsia andropogonis</i> (formerly <i>Burkholderia andropogonis</i>) which does not form OL constitutively, and a derived strain constitutively forming OLs. Both were characterized under free-living conditions and during pathogenic interactions with their respective hosts. The absence of OLs in <i>B. cenocepacia</i> slightly affected bacterial growth under specific abiotic stress conditions such as high temperature and low pH. <i>B. cenocepacia</i> lacking OLs caused lower mortality in <i>Galleria mellonella</i> larvae while <i>R. andropogonis</i> constitutively forming OLs triggers an increased formation of reactive oxygen species immediately after infection of maize leaves, suggesting that OLs can have an important role during the activation of the innate immune response of eukaryotes.	2020	Córdoba-Castro, Luz América; Córdoba-Castro, LA; Córdoba-Castro; Salgado-Morales, Rosalba; Salgado-Morales, R; Salgado-Morales; Torres, Martha; Torres, M; Torres; Martínez-Aguilar, Lourdes; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Vences-Guzmán, Miguel Ángel; Vences-Guzmán, MÁ; Vences-Guzmán; Guan, Ziqiang; Guan, Z; Guan; Dantán-González, Edgar; Dantán-González, E; Dantán-González; Serrano, Mario; Serrano, M; Serrano; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	Front Mol Biosci
33232849	Diverse Rhizobium strains isolated from root nodules of Trifolium alexandrinum in Egypt and symbiovars.	Berseem clover (T. alexandrinum) is the main forage legume crop used as animal feed in Egypt. Here, eighty rhizobial isolates were isolated from root nodules of berseem clover grown in different regions in Egypt and were grouped by RFLP-16S rRNA ribotyping. Representative isolates were characterized using phylogenetic analyses of the 16S rRNA, rpoB, glnA, pgi, and nodC genes. We also investigated the performance of these isolates using phenotypic tests and nitrogen fixation efficiency assays. The majority of strains (<90%) were closely related to Rhizobium aegyptiacum and Rhizobium aethiopicum and of the remaining strains, six belonged to the Rhizobium leguminosarum genospecies complex and only one strain was assigned to Agrobacterium fabacearum. Despite their heterogeneous chromosomal background, most of the strains shared nodC gene alleles corresponding to symbiovar trifolii. Some of the strains closely affiliated to R. aegyptiacum and R. aethiopicum had superior nodulation and nitrogen fixation capabilities in berseem clover, compared to the commercial inoculant (Okadein®) and N-added treatments. R. leguminosarum strain NGB-CR 17 that harbored a nodC allele typical of symbiovar viciae, was also able to form an effective symbiosis with clover. Two strains with nodC alleles of symbiovar trifolii, R. aegyptiacum strains NGB-CR 129 and 136, were capable of forming effective nodules in Phaseolus vulgaris in axenic greenhouse conditions. This adds the symbiovar trifolii which is well-established in the Egyptian soils to the list of symbiovars that form nodules in P. vulgaris.	2021 Jan	Youseif, Sameh H; Youseif, SH; Youseif; Abd El-Megeed, Fayrouz H; Abd El-Megeed, FH; Abd El-Megeed; Mohamed, Akram H; Mohamed, AH; Mohamed; Ageez, Amr; Ageez, A; Ageez; Veliz, Esteban; Veliz, E; Veliz; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
32535165	Quantifying plasmid dynamics using single-cell microfluidics and image bioinformatics.	Multicopy plasmids play an important role in bacterial ecology and evolution by accelerating the rate of adaptation and providing a platform for rapid gene amplification and evolutionary rescue. Despite the relevance of plasmids in bacterial evolutionary dynamics, evaluating the population-level consequences of randomly segregating and replicating plasmids in individual cells remains a challenging problem, both in theory and experimentally. In recent years, technological advances in fluorescence microscopy and microfluidics have allowed studying temporal changes in gene expression by quantifying the fluorescent intensity of individual cells under controlled environmental conditions. In this paper, we will describe the manufacture, experimental setup, and data analysis pipeline of different microfluidic systems that can be used to study plasmid dynamics, both in single-cells and in populations. To illustrate the benefits and limitations of microfluidics to study multicopy plasmid dynamics, we will use an experimental model system consisting on Escherichia coli K12 carrying non-conjugative, multicopy plasmids (19 copies per cell, in average) encoding different fluorescent markers and β-lactam resistance genes. First, we will use an image-based flow cytometer to estimate changes in the allele distribution of a heterogeneous population under different selection regimes. Then we will use a mothermachine microfluidic device to obtain time-series of fluorescent intensity of individual cells to argue that plasmid segregation and replication dynamics are inherently stochastic processes. Finally, using a microchemostat, we track thousands of cells in time to reconstruct bacterial lineages and evaluate the allele frequency distributions that emerge in response to a range of selective pressures.	2021 01	Hernandez-Beltran, J C R; Hernandez-Beltran, JCR; Hernandez-Beltran; Rodríguez-Beltrán, J; Rodríguez-Beltrán, J; Rodríguez-Beltrán; Millán, A San; Millán, AS; Millán; Peña-Miller, R; Peña-Miller, R; Peña-Miller; Fuentes-Hernández, A; Fuentes-Hernández, A; Fuentes-Hernández	Plasmid
33384681	A Novel OmpR-Type Response Regulator Controls Multiple Stages of the <i>Rhizobium etli - Phaseolus vulgaris</i> N<sub>2</sub>-Fixing Symbiosis.	OmpR, is one of the best characterized response regulators families, which includes transcriptional regulators with a variety of physiological roles including the control of symbiotic nitrogen fixation (SNF). The <i>Rhizobium etli</i> CE3 genome encodes 18 OmpR-type regulators; the function of the majority of these regulators during the SNF in common bean, remains elusive. In this work, we demonstrated that a <i>R. etli</i> mutant strain lacking the OmpR-type regulator RetPC57 (ΔRetPC57), formed less nodules when used as inoculum for common bean. Furthermore, we observed reduced expression level of bacterial genes involved in Nod Factors production (<i>nodA</i> and <i>nodB</i>) and of plant early-nodulation genes (<i>NSP2</i>, <i>NIN</i>, <i>NF-YA</i> and <i>ENOD40</i>), in plants inoculated with ΔRetPC57. RetPC57 also contributes to the appropriate expression of genes which products are part of the multidrug efflux pumps family (MDR). Interestingly, nodules elicited by ΔRetPC57 showed increased expression of genes relevant for Carbon/Nitrogen nodule metabolism (<i>PEPC</i> and <i>GOGAT</i>) and ΔRetPC57 bacteroids showed higher nitrogen fixation activity as well as increased expression of key genes directly involved in SNF (<i>hfixL, fixKf, fnrN, fixN, nifA</i> and <i>nifH</i>). Taken together, our data show that the previously uncharacterized regulator RetPC57 is a key player in the development of the <i>R. etli</i> - <i>P. vulgaris</i> symbiosis.	2020	Rodríguez, Susana; Rodríguez, S; Rodríguez; Correa-Galeote, David; Correa-Galeote, D; Correa-Galeote; Sánchez-Pérez, Mishael; Sánchez-Pérez, M; Sánchez-Pérez; Ramírez, Mario; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Isidra-Arellano, Mariel C; Isidra-Arellano, MC; Isidra-Arellano; Reyero-Saavedra, María Del Rocío; Reyero-Saavedra, MDR; Reyero-Saavedra; Zamorano-Sánchez, David; Zamorano-Sánchez, D; Zamorano-Sánchez; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Valdés-López, Oswaldo; Valdés-López, O; Valdés-López; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard	Front Microbiol
33045056	Origin and Evolutionary Dynamics of the miR2119 and ADH1 Regulatory Module in Legumes.	MicroRNAs are important regulators of gene expression in eukaryotes. Previously, we reported that in Phaseolus vulgaris, the precursor for miR2119 is located in the same gene as miR398a, conceiving a dicistronic MIR gene. Both miRNA precursors are transcribed and processed from a single transcript resulting in two mature microRNAs that regulate the mRNAs encoding ALCOHOL DEHYDROGENASE 1 (ADH1) and COPPER-ZINC SUPEROXIDE DISMUTASE 1 (CSD1). Genes for miR398 are distributed throughout the spermatophytes; however, miR2119 is only found in Leguminosae species, indicating its recent emergence. Here, we used public databases to explore the presence of the miR2119 sequence in several plant species. We found that miR2119 is present only in specific clades within the Papilionoideae subfamily, including important crops used for human consumption and forage. Within this subfamily, MIR2119 and MIR398a are found together as a single gene in the genomes of the Millettioids and Hologalegina. In contrast, in the Dalbergioids MIR2119 is located in a different locus from MIR398a, suggesting this as the ancestral genomic organization. To our knowledge, this is a unique example where two separate MIRNA genes have merged to generate a single polycistronic gene. Phylogenetic analysis of ADH1 gene sequences in the Papilionoideae subfamily revealed duplication events resulting in up to four ADH1 genes in certain species. Notably, the presence of MIR2119 correlates with the conservation of target sites in particular ADH1 genes in each clade. Our results suggest that post-transcriptional regulation of ADH1 genes by miR2119 has contributed to shaping the expansion and divergence of this gene family in the Papilionoideae. Future experimental work on ADH1 regulation by miR2119 in more legume species will help to further understand the evolutionary history of the ADH1 gene family and the relevance of miRNA regulation in this process.	2020 12	De la Rosa, Carlos; De la Rosa, C; De la Rosa; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Covarrubias, Alejandra A; Covarrubias, AA; Covarrubias; Reyes, José L; Reyes, JL; Reyes	Genome Biol Evol
32916332	Antibiotic resistance mechanisms in Acinetobacter spp. strains isolated from patients in a paediatric hospital in Mexico.	The aim of this study was to identify Acinetobacter spp. strains from paediatric patients, to determine their genetic relationship, to detect antibiotic resistance genes and to evaluate the role of efflux pumps in antibiotic resistance.	2020 12	Bello-López, Elena; Bello-López, E; Bello-López; Rocha-Gracia, Rosa Del Carmen; Rocha-Gracia, RDC; Rocha-Gracia; Castro-Jaimes, Semiramis; Castro-Jaimes, S; Castro-Jaimes; Cevallos, Miguel Ángel; Cevallos, MÁ; Cevallos; Vargas-Cruz, Michelle; Vargas-Cruz, M; Vargas-Cruz; Verdugo-Yocupicio, Ricardo; Verdugo-Yocupicio, R; Verdugo-Yocupicio; Sáenz, Yolanda; Sáenz, Y; Sáenz; Torres, Carmen; Torres, C; Torres; Gutiérrez-Cázarez, Zita; Gutiérrez-Cázarez, Z; Gutiérrez-Cázarez; Arenas-Hernández, Margarita María de la Paz; Arenas-Hernández, MMP; Arenas-Hernández; Lozano-Zarain, Patricia; Lozano-Zarain, P; Lozano-Zarain	J Glob Antimicrob Resist
32894363	Bacillus velezensis 83 a bacterial strain from mango phyllosphere, useful for biological control and plant growth promotion.	Bacillus velezensis 83 was isolated from mango tree phyllosphere of orchards located in El Rosario, Sinaloa, México. The assessment of this strain as BCA (biological control agent), as well as PGPB (plant growth-promoting bacteria), were demonstrated through in vivo and in vitro assays. In vivo assays showed that B. velezensis 83 was able to control anthracnose (Kent mangoes) as efficiently as chemical treatment with Captan 50 PH™ or Cupravit hidro™. The inoculation of B. velezensis 83 to the roots of maize seedlings yielded an increase of 12% in height and 45% of root biomass, as compared with uninoculated seedlings. In vitro co-culture assays showed that B. velezensis 83 promoted Arabidopsis thaliana growth (root and shoot biomass) while, under the same experimental conditions, B. velezensis FZB42 (reference strain) had a suppressive effect on plant growth. In order to characterize the isolated strain, the complete genome sequence of B. velezensis 83 is reported. Its circular genome consists of 3,997,902 bp coding to 3949 predicted genes. The assembly and annotation of this genome revealed gene clusters related with plant-bacteria interaction and sporulation, as well as ten secondary metabolites biosynthetic gene clusters implicated in the biological control of phytopathogens. Despite the high genomic identity (> 98%) between B. velezensis 83 and B. velezensis FZB42, they are phenotypically different. Indeed, in vitro production of compounds such as surfactin and bacillomycin D (biocontrol activity) and γ-PGA (biofilm component) is significantly different between both strains.	2020 Sep	Balderas-Ruíz, Karina A; Balderas-Ruíz, KA; Balderas-Ruíz; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Santamaria, Rosa I; Santamaria, RI; Santamaria; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Cristiano-Fajardo, Sergio Andrés; Cristiano-Fajardo, SA; Cristiano-Fajardo; Barrera-Ortíz, Salvador; Barrera-Ortíz, S; Barrera-Ortíz; Mezo-Villalobos, Miriam; Mezo-Villalobos, M; Mezo-Villalobos; Aranda-Ocampo, Sergio; Aranda-Ocampo, S; Aranda-Ocampo; Guevara-García, Ángel Arturo; Guevara-García, ÁA; Guevara-García; Galindo, Enrique; Galindo, E; Galindo; Serrano-Carreón, Leobardo; Serrano-Carreón, L; Serrano-Carreón	AMB Express
32989089	Cyclic di-GMP-Mediated Regulation of Extracellular Mannuronan C-5 Epimerases Is Essential for Cyst Formation in Azotobacter vinelandii.	The genus <i>Azotobacter,</i> belonging to the <i>Pseudomonadaceae</i> family, is characterized by the formation of cysts, which are metabolically dormant cells produced under adverse conditions and able to resist desiccation. Although this developmental process has served as a model for the study of cell differentiation in Gram-negative bacteria, the molecular basis of its regulation is still poorly understood. Here, we report that the ubiquitous second messenger cyclic dimeric GMP (c-di-GMP) is critical for the formation of cysts in <i>Azotobacter vinelandii</i> Upon encystment induction, the levels of c-di-GMP increased, reaching a peak within the first 6 h. In the absence of the diguanylate cyclase MucR, however, the levels of this second messenger remained low throughout the developmental process. <i>A. vinelandii</i> cysts are surrounded by two alginate layers with variable proportions of guluronic residues, which are introduced into the final alginate chain by extracellular mannuronic C-5 epimerases of the AlgE1 to AlgE7 family. Unlike in <i>Pseudomonas aeruginosa</i>, MucR was not required for alginate polymerization in <i>A. vinelandii</i> Conversely, MucR was necessary for the expression of extracellular alginate C-5 epimerases; therefore, the MucR-deficient strain produced cyst-like structures devoid of the alginate capsule and unable to resist desiccation. Expression of <i>mucR</i> was partially dependent on the response regulator AlgR, which binds to two sites in the <i>mucR</i> promoter, enhancing <i>mucR</i> transcription. Together, these results indicate that the developmental process of <i>A. vinelandii</i> is controlled through a signaling module that involves activation by the response regulator AlgR and c-di-GMP accumulation that depends on MucR.<b>IMPORTANCE</b> <i>A. vinelandii</i> has served as an experimental model for the study of the differentiation processes to form metabolically dormant cells in Gram-negative bacteria. This work identifies c-di-GMP as a critical regulator for the production of alginates with specific contents of guluronic residues that are able to structure the rigid laminated layers of the cyst envelope. Although allosteric activation of the alginate polymerase complex Alg8-Alg44 by c-di-GMP has long been recognized, our results show a previously unidentified role during the polymer modification step, controlling the expression of extracellular alginate epimerases. Our results also highlight the importance of c-di-GMP in the control of the physical properties of alginate, which ultimately determine the desiccation resistance of the differentiated cell.	2020 11	Martínez-Ortiz, Iliana C; Martínez-Ortiz, IC; Martínez-Ortiz; Ahumada-Manuel, Carlos L; Ahumada-Manuel, CL; Ahumada-Manuel; Hsueh, Brian Y; Hsueh, BY; Hsueh; Guzmán, Josefina; Guzmán, J; Guzmán; Moreno, Soledad; Moreno, S; Moreno; Cocotl-Yañez, Miguel; Cocotl-Yañez, M; Cocotl-Yañez; Waters, Christopher M; Waters, CM; Waters; Zamorano-Sánchez, David; Zamorano-Sánchez, D; Zamorano-Sánchez; Espín, Guadalupe; Espín, G; Espín; Núñez, Cinthia; Núñez, C; Núñez	J Bacteriol
32385221	Identification of miRNAs linked to peanut nodule functional processes.	microRNAs (miRNAs) are non-coding small RNAs that regulate gene expression at post-transcriptional level. Thousands of miRNAs have been identified in legumes, but studies about miRNAs linked to peanut nodule functionality are scarce. In this work we analyzed transcriptional changes in peanut nodules to identify miRNAs involved in functional processes of these organs. We found 32 miRNAs precursors differentially expressed in nodules compared with roots, and predicted the potential targets of their corresponding mature miRNAs. Among them, 20 belong to 14 conserved miRNAs families and 12 are <i>Arachis hypogaea</i>-specific miRNAs. Expression levels of 3 miRNAs (ahy-miR399, ahy-miR159 and ahy-miR3508) were confirmed experimentally by qPCR. We also demonstrated that the expression of these miRNAs was not affected by inoculation of a biocontrol bacterium or a fungal pathogen. The catalogue of differentially expressed miRNA precursors and the expression of the corresponding mature miRNA potential targets in the nodules of <i>A. hypogaea</i> obtained in this work is a database of strong candidates, including <i>A. hypogaea</i>-specific miRNAs, for the regulation of the nodule functionality. The analysis of their role in this process will certainly lead to the characterization of essential regulators in these particular aeschynomenoid nodules.	2020	Figueredo, Maria Soledad; Figueredo, MS; Figueredo; Formey, Damien; Formey, D; Formey; Rodriguez, Johan; Rodriguez, J; Rodriguez; Ibanez, Fernando; Ibanez, F; Ibanez; Hernandez, Georgina; Hernandez, G; Hernandez; Fabra, Adriana; Fabra, A; Fabra	J Biosci
32890468	On the evolution of cytochrome oxidases consuming oxygen.	This review examines the current state of the art on the evolution of the families of Heme Copper Oxygen reductases (HCO) that oxidize cytochrome c and reduce oxygen to water, chiefly cytochrome oxidase, COX. COX is present in many bacterial and most eukaryotic lineages, but its origin has remained elusive. After examining previous proposals for COX evolution, the review summarizes recent insights suggesting that COX enzymes might have evolved in soil dwelling, probably iron-oxidizing bacteria which lived on emerged land over two billion years ago. These bacteria were the likely ancestors of extant acidophilic iron-oxidizers such as Acidithiobacillus spp., which belong to basal lineages of the phylum Proteobacteria. Proteobacteria may thus be considered the originators of COX, which was then laterally transferred to other prokaryotes. The taxonomy of bacteria is presented in relation to the current distribution of COX and C family oxidases, from which COX may have evolved.	2020 12	Esposti, Mauro Degli; Esposti, MD; Esposti	Biochim Biophys Acta Bioenerg
32956635	Protein expression profile of Taenia crassiceps cysticerci related to Th1- and Th2-type responses in the mouse cysticercosis model.	The intraperitoneal cysticercosis model with the Taenia crassiceps ORF strain in female BALB/cAnN mice has been widely used to study the immune response in cysticercosis. During early infection (2 weeks), the host develops a non-permissive Th1 response, whereas during late infection (8 weeks), molecules from the cysticerci induce a Th2 response that is permissive to parasite growth. The modulation of the Th2 response is induced by molecules excreted/secreted by the larval stage of the parasite. However, there is limited information regarding the response of cysticerci to the mouse immunological environment during infection. The proteomic profiles in T. crassiceps ORF cysticerci when faced with the mouse Th1 and Th2 responses were analyzed through two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2DE), and the differential expression of proteins was evaluated. Thirteen proteins, whose differential expression varied between 70% and 100%, were selected randomly. Protein identification by MALDI-TOF MS and BLAST showed that the proteins were related to folding, signaling, enzymatic activities, cell-movement regulation, cell-cell interactions, motility, carbohydrate metabolism, detoxification, and redox regulation processes. Notably, some of the proteins can act as antigenic-protective molecules and elicit a weak Th1 response; however, most are involved in the avoidance of the immune system, which leads to a Th2 response, or apoptosis. The findings indicate the process by which T. crassiceps cysticerci responds based on the host environment and provides novel insights into the mechanism by which this facilitates its establishment and persistence in the mouse. Furthermore, these proteins could be used as targets for drug and vaccine development.	2020 Dec	Díaz-Zaragoza, Mariana; Díaz-Zaragoza, M; Díaz-Zaragoza; Jiménez, LucíaLucía; Jiménez, L; Jiménez; Hernández, Magdalena; Hernández, M; Hernández; Hernández-Ávila, Ricardo; Hernández-Ávila, R; Hernández-Ávila; Navarro, Luz; Navarro, L; Navarro; Ochoa-Sánchez, Alicia; Ochoa-Sánchez, A; Ochoa-Sánchez; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Ostoa-Saloma, Pedro; Ostoa-Saloma, P; Ostoa-Saloma; Landa, Abraham; Landa, A; Landa	Acta Trop
33051478	Spirochetes isolated from arthropods constitute a novel genus Entomospira genus novum within the order Spirochaetales.	Spirochetal bacteria were successfully isolated from mosquitoes (Culex pipiens, Aedes cinereus) in the Czech Republic between 1999 and 2002. Preliminary 16S rRNA phylogenetic sequence analysis showed that these strains differed significantly from other spirochetal genera within the family Spirochaetaceae and suggested a novel bacterial genus in this family. To obtain more comprehensive genomic information of these isolates, we used Illumina MiSeq and Oxford Nanopore technologies to sequence four genomes of these spirochetes (BR151, BR149, BR193, BR208). The overall size of the genomes varied between 1.68 and 1.78 Mb; the GC content ranged from 38.5 to 45.8%. Draft genomes were compared to 36 publicly available genomes encompassing eight genera from the class Spirochaetes. A phylogeny generated from orthologous genes across all taxa and the percentage of conserved proteins (POCP) confirmed the genus status of these novel spirochetes. The genus Entomospira gen. nov. is proposed with BR151 selected as type species of the genus. For this isolate and the closest related isolate, BR149, we propose the species name Entomospira culicis sp. nov. The two other isolates BR208 and BR193 are named Entomospira nematocera sp. nov. (BR208) and Entomospira entomophilus sp. nov. (BR193). Finally, we discuss their interesting phylogenetic positioning.	2020 10	Graña-Miraglia, Lucía; Graña-Miraglia, L; Graña-Miraglia; Sikutova, Silvie; Sikutova, S; Sikutova; Vancová, Marie; Vancová, M; Vancová; Bílý, Tomáš; Bílý, T; Bílý; Fingerle, Volker; Fingerle, V; Fingerle; Sing, Andreas; Sing, A; Sing; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Margos, Gabriele; Margos, G; Margos; Rudolf, Ivo; Rudolf, I; Rudolf	Sci Rep
32651884	Structure and diversity of native bacterial communities in soils contaminated with polychlorinated biphenyls.	Persistent organic pollutants (POPs) such as polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are a group of high-risk synthetic substances for human and environmental health. Currently, the study of sites contaminated by the spillage of equipment PCBs containing have been considered targeted areas for the study of bacterial communities with potential for PCBs degradation. There in isolation of bacterial strains is vital for use in biodegradable processes, such as bacterial bioaugmentation, which accelerates the development of phenomena such as natural attenuation of contaminated sites. The objective of this study was to assess biodiversity of bacteria contained in anthropogenic contaminated soils (H<sub>S</sub> and H<sub>P</sub>) with PCBs compared to a control sample without contaminant and the modified forest (F) and agricultural (A) soil in the laboratory with 100 mg L<sup>-1</sup> PCB. For the analysis of 16S rRNA genes amplified from DNA extracted from the soils evaluated, the latest generation of Illumina Miseq and Sanger sequencing for the cultivable strains were detected. The bacteria identified as the most abundant bacterial phyla for H<sub>S</sub> and H<sub>P</sub> soil was Proteobacteria (56.7%) and Firmicutes (22.9%), which decreased in F and A soils. The most abundant bacterial genera were Burkholderia, Bacillus, Acinetobacter, Comamonas and Cupriavidus. Several species identified in this study, such as Bacillus cereus, Burkholderia cepacia, Comamonas testosteroni and Acinetobacter pittii have been reported as PCBs degraders. Finally, by means of a principal component analysis (PCA), a correlation between the physical and chemical characteristics of the soils in relation to the relative abundances of the bacteria identified was obtained. The C/N ratio was directly related to the control soil (without contaminant), while SOM maintained a relationship with F and A soils and the bacterial abundances were directly related to Hs and Hp soils due to the presence of aroclor 1260. Bacteria with the ability to tolerate high concentrations of this pollutant are considered for future use in biostimulation and bioaugmentation processes in contaminated soils.	2020 Jul	Zenteno-Rojas, Adalberto; Zenteno-Rojas, A; Zenteno-Rojas; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Castañeda-Valbuena, Daniel; Castañeda-Valbuena, D; Castañeda-Valbuena; Rincón-Molina, Clara Ivette; Rincón-Molina, CI; Rincón-Molina; Ruíz-Valdiviezo, Víctor Manuel; Ruíz-Valdiviezo, VM; Ruíz-Valdiviezo; Meza-Gordillo, Rocío; Meza-Gordillo, R; Meza-Gordillo; Villalobos-Maldonado, Juan José; Villalobos-Maldonado, JJ; Villalobos-Maldonado; Vences-Guzmán, Miguel Ángel; Vences-Guzmán, MÁ; Vences-Guzmán; Rincón-Rosales, Reiner; Rincón-Rosales, R; Rincón-Rosales	AMB Express
33250866	RhizoBindingSites, a Database of DNA-Binding Motifs in Nitrogen-Fixing Bacteria Inferred Using a Footprint Discovery Approach.	Basic knowledge of transcriptional regulation is needed to understand the mechanisms governing biological processes, i.e., nitrogen fixation by Rhizobiales bacteria in symbiosis with leguminous plants. The RhizoBindingSites database is a computer-assisted framework providing motif-gene-associated conserved sequences potentially implicated in transcriptional regulation in nine symbiotic species. A dyad analysis algorithm was used to deduce motifs in the upstream regulatory region of orthologous genes, and only motifs also located in the gene seed promoter with a <i>p</i>-value of 1e-4 were accepted. A genomic scan analysis of the upstoream sequences with these motifs was performed. These predicted binding sites were categorized according to low, medium and high homology between the matrix and the upstream regulatory sequence. On average, 62.7% of the genes had a motif, accounting for 80.44% of the genes per genome, with 19613 matrices (a matrix is a representation of a motif). The RhizoBindingSites database provides motif and gene information, motif conservation in the order Rhizobiales, matrices, motif logos, regulatory networks constructed from theoretical or experimental data, a criterion for selecting motifs and a guide for users. The RhizoBindingSites database is freely available online at rhizobindingsites.ccg.unam.mx.	2020	Taboada-Castro, Hermenegildo; Taboada-Castro, H; Taboada-Castro; Castro-Mondragón, Jaime Abraham; Castro-Mondragón, JA; Castro-Mondragón; Aguilar-Vera, Alejandro; Aguilar-Vera, A; Aguilar-Vera; Hernández-Álvarez, Alfredo José; Hernández-Álvarez, AJ; Hernández-Álvarez; van Helden, Jacques; van Helden, J; van Helden; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara	Front Microbiol
32790864	Expression Evolution of Ancestral XY Gametologs across All Major Groups of Placental Mammals.	Placental mammals present 180 million-year-old Y chromosomes that have retained a handful of dosage-sensitive genes. However, the expression evolution of Y-linked genes across placental groups has remained largely unexplored. Here, we expanded the number of Y gametolog sequences by analyzing ten additional species from previously unexplored groups. We detected seven remarkably conserved genes across 25 placental species with known Y repertoires. We then used RNA-seq data from 17 placental mammals to unveil the expression evolution of XY gametologs. We found that Y gametologs followed, on average, a 3-fold expression loss and that X gametologs also experienced some expression reduction, particularly in primates. Y gametologs gained testis specificity through an accelerated expression decay in somatic tissues. Moreover, despite the substantial expression decay of Y genes, the combined expression of XY gametologs in males is higher than that of both X gametologs in females. Finally, our work describes several features of the Y chromosome in the last common mammalian ancestor.	2020 11	Martínez-Pacheco, Mónica; Martínez-Pacheco, M; Martínez-Pacheco; Tenorio, Mariela; Tenorio, M; Tenorio; Almonte, Laura; Almonte, L; Almonte; Fajardo, Vicente; Fajardo, V; Fajardo; Godínez, Alan; Godínez, A; Godínez; Fernández, Diego; Fernández, D; Fernández; Cornejo-Páramo, Paola; Cornejo-Páramo, P; Cornejo-Páramo; Díaz-Barba, Karina; Díaz-Barba, K; Díaz-Barba; Halbert, Jean; Halbert, J; Halbert; Liechti, Angelica; Liechti, A; Liechti; Székely, Tamas; Székely, T; Székely; Urrutia, Araxi O; Urrutia, AO; Urrutia; Cortez, Diego; Cortez, D; Cortez	Genome Biol Evol
33141007	Expansin-related proteins: biology, microbe-plant interactions and associated plant-defense responses.	Expansins, cerato-platanins and swollenins (which we will henceforth refer to as expansin-related proteins) are a group of microbial proteins involved in microbe-plant interactions. Although they share very low sequence similarity, some of their composing domains are near-identical at the structural level. Expansin-related proteins have their target in the plant cell wall, in which they act through a non-enzymatic, but still uncharacterized, mechanism. In most cases, mutagenesis of expansin-related genes affects plant colonization or plant pathogenesis of different bacterial and fungal species, and thus, in many cases they are considered virulence factors. Additionally, plant treatment with expansin-related proteins activate several plant defenses resulting in the priming and protection towards subsequent pathogen encounters. Plant-defence responses induced by these proteins are reminiscent of pattern-triggered immunity or hypersensitive response in some cases. Plant immunity to expansin-related proteins could be caused by the following: (i) protein detection by specific host-cell receptors, (ii) alterations to the cell-wall-barrier properties sensed by the host, (iii) displacement of cell-wall polysaccharides detected by the host. Expansin-related proteins may also target polysaccharides on the wall of the microbes that produced them under certain physiological instances. Here, we review biochemical, evolutionary and biological aspects of these relatively understudied proteins and different immune responses they induce in plant hosts.	2020 11	Narváez-Barragán, Delia A; Narváez-Barragán, DA; Narváez-Barragán; Tovar-Herrera, Omar E; Tovar-Herrera, OE; Tovar-Herrera; Segovia, Lorenzo; Segovia, L; Segovia; Serrano, Mario; Serrano, M; Serrano; Martinez-Anaya, Claudia; Martinez-Anaya, C; Martinez-Anaya	Microbiology (Reading)
32954454	Evolution of an Escherichia coli PTS<sup>-</sup> strain: a study of reproducibility and dynamics of an adaptive evolutive process.	Adaptive laboratory evolution (ALE) has been used to study and solve pressing questions about evolution, especially for the study of the development of mutations that confer increased fitness during evolutionary processes. In this contribution, we investigated how the evolutionary process conducted with the PTS<sup>-</sup> mutant of Escherichia coli PB11 in three parallel batch cultures allowed the restoration of rapid growth with glucose as the carbon source. The significant findings showed that genomic sequence analysis of a set of newly evolved mutants isolated from ALE experiments 2-3 developed some essential mutations, which efficiently improved the fast-growing phenotypes throughout different fitness landscapes. Regulator galR was the target of several mutations such as SNPs, partial and total deletions, and insertion of an IS1 element and thus indicated the relevance of a null mutation of this gene in the adaptation of the evolving population of PB11 during the parallel ALE experiments. These mutations resulted in the selection of MglB and GalP as the primary glucose transporters by the evolving population, but further selection of at least a second adaptive mutation was also necessary. We found that mutations in the yfeO, rppH, and rng genes improved the fitness advantage of evolving PTS<sup>-</sup> mutants and resulted in amplification of leaky activity in Glk for glucose phosphorylation and upregulation of glycolytic and other growth-related genes. Notably, we determined that these mutations appeared and were fixed in the evolving populations between 48 and 72 h of cultivation, which resulted in the selection of fast-growing mutants during one ALE experiments in batch cultures of 80 h duration.Key points• ALE experiments selected evolved mutants through different fitness landscapes in which galR was the target of different mutations: SNPs, deletions, and insertion of IS.• Key mutations in evolving mutants appeared and fixed at 48-72 h of cultivation.• ALE experiments led to increased understanding of the genetics of cellular adaptation to carbon source limitation.	2020 Nov	Carmona, Susy Beatriz; Carmona, SB; Carmona; Flores, Noemí; Flores, N; Flores; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Gosset, Guillermo; Gosset, G; Gosset; Bolívar, Francisco; Bolívar, F; Bolívar; Escalante, Adelfo; Escalante, A; Escalante	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol
32998072	Paraburkholderia lycopersici sp. nov., a nitrogen-fixing species isolated from rhizoplane of Lycopersicon esculentum Mill. var. Saladette in Mexico.	A survey of our in-house bacterial collection identified a group of six strains isolated from the tomato rhizoplane that possessed 16S rRNA gene sequences with 98.2% sequence similarity to Paraburkholderia pallida, suggesting that these strains represented a novel species. Multilocus sequence analysis using gltB, lepA and recA gene sequences showed the clustering of the strains and the BOX-PCR patterns were similar among these strains. The average nucleotide identity and the DNA-DNA virtual hybridization of strain TNe-862<sup>T</sup> was <89% and <34%, respectively, to the genomes of any sequenced Paraburkholderia species. The genome of strain TNe-862<sup>T</sup> possessed all the genes necessary for nitrogen fixation and biosynthesis of indoleacetic acid and antimicrobials terpenes, phosphonates and bacteriocins. It also contained genes for metal resistance, xenobiotic degradation, and hydrolytic enzymes such as a putative chitinase and isoamylase. Even though the strain contained potential genes for degradation of cellulose and starch, the bacterium was unable to utilize these substrates in culture medium. The genome encoded flagella and pili as well as multiple chemotaxis systems. In addition, genes encoding for the type I, II, IV, V and VI secretion systems were also present. The strains grow up to 42°C and 5% NaCl. The optimum growth pH was 8. The major cellular fatty acids were C<sub>16:0</sub> and C<sub>18:1</sub> ω7c. Based on this polyphasic analysis, these strains represent a novel species in the genus Paraburkholderia, for which the name Paraburkholderia lycopersici sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is TNe-862<sup>T</sup> (=LMG 26415<sup>T</sup>=CIP 110323<sup>T</sup>).	2020 Nov	Tapia-García, Erika Yanet; Tapia-García, EY; Tapia-García; Arroyo-Herrera, Ivan; Arroyo-Herrera, I; Arroyo-Herrera; Rojas-Rojas, Fernando Uriel; Rojas-Rojas, FU; Rojas-Rojas; Ibarra, J Antonio; Ibarra, JA; Ibarra; Vásquez-Murrieta, María Soledad; Vásquez-Murrieta, MS; Vásquez-Murrieta; Martínez-Aguilar, Lourdes; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Whitman, William B; Whitman, WB; Whitman; Estrada de Los Santos, Paulina; Estrada de Los Santos, P; Estrada de Los Santos	Syst Appl Microbiol
32984974	Folates in legume root nodules.	Folates are multifunctional metabolites in plants that are essential for cell division, nucleic acids and amino acid synthesis. During symbiotic nitrogen fixation in legumes, these cofactors are needed for de novo purine biosynthesis, meaning that changes in the folate pools could directly affect the flow of fixed nitrogen to the plant. Its role related to symbiotic nitrogen fixation has not been yet explored, but recent data suggest a relevant role during the first steps. Transcriptomic, metabolomic and proteomic analyses indicate that folates are accumulated in symbiotic plant tissue, as they are involved, not only in de novo purines biosynthesis, but in nitrogen translocation, endoreduplication and phytohormones biosynthesis. Understanding the possible implication of folate pools during the nitrogen fixation and assimilation, might aid for new engineering targets, in relation to the two transformylations or the production of glycine by serine hydroxymethyltransferase during the de novo purine biosynthetic pathway. In this review, we intend to deliver and discuss the available evidence that support a relevant role of folates during the symbiotic nitrogen fixation.	2021 Mar	Banuelos, Jacob; Banuelos, J; Banuelos; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Montaño, Noé Manuel; Montaño, NM; Montaño; Camargo-Ricalde, Sara Lucía; Camargo-Ricalde, SL; Camargo-Ricalde	Physiol Plant
33063925	Five structural genes required for ceramide synthesis in Caulobacter and for bacterial survival.	Sphingolipids are essential and common membrane components in eukaryotic organisms, participating in many important cellular functions. Only a few bacteria are thought to harbour sphingolipids in their membranes, among them the well-studied α-proteobacterium Caulobacter crescentus, a model organism for asymmetric cell division and cellular differentiation. Here, we report that C. crescentus wild type produces several molecular species of dihydroceramides, which are not produced in a mutant lacking the structural gene for serine palmitoyltransferase (spt). Whereas growth of a spt-deficient mutant and wild type are indistinguishable during the exponential phase of growth, survival of the spt-deficient mutant is much reduced, in comparison with wild type, during stationary phase of growth, especially at elevated temperatures. The structural gene for spt is located within a genomic cluster, comprising another 16 genes and which, like spt, are important for fitness of C. crescentus. Mutants deficient in genes linked to spt by high cofitness were unable to produce dihydroceramide or to survive in stationary phase of growth at elevated temperatures. At least five structural genes are required for dihydroceramide biosynthesis in C. crescentus and sphingolipid biosynthesis is needed for survival of this bacterium and the integrity of its outer membrane.	2021 01	Olea-Ozuna, Roberto Jhonatan; Olea-Ozuna, RJ; Olea-Ozuna; Poggio, Sebastian; Poggio, S; Poggio; EdBergström; Quiroz-Rocha, Elva; Quiroz-Rocha, E; Quiroz-Rocha; García-Soriano, Daniela A; García-Soriano, DA; García-Soriano; Sahonero-Canavesi, Diana X; Sahonero-Canavesi, DX; Sahonero-Canavesi; Padilla-Gómez, Jonathan; Padilla-Gómez, J; Padilla-Gómez; Martínez-Aguilar, Lourdes; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Thomas-Oates, Jane; Thomas-Oates, J; Thomas-Oates; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	Environ Microbiol
33075080	Fibrillarin evolution through the Tree of Life: Comparative genomics and microsynteny network analyses provide new insights into the evolutionary history of Fibrillarin.	Fibrillarin (FIB), a methyltransferase essential for life in the vast majority of eukaryotes, is involved in methylation of rRNA required for proper ribosome assembly, as well as methylation of histone H2A of promoter regions of rRNA genes. RNA viral progression that affects both plants and animals requires FIB proteins. Despite the importance and high conservation of fibrillarins, there little is known about the evolutionary dynamics of this small gene family. We applied a phylogenomic microsynteny-network approach to elucidate the evolutionary history of FIB proteins across the Tree of Life. We identified 1063 non-redundant FIB sequences across 1049 completely sequenced genomes from Viruses, Bacteria, Archaea, and Eukarya. FIB is a highly conserved single-copy gene through Archaea and Eukarya lineages, except for plants, which have a gene family expansion due to paleopolyploidy and tandem duplications. We found a high conservation of the FIB genomic context during plant evolution. Surprisingly, FIB in mammals duplicated after the Eutheria split (e.g., ruminants, felines, primates) from therian mammals (e.g., marsupials) to form two main groups of sequences, the FIB and FIB-like groups. The FIB-like group transposed to another genomic context and remained syntenic in all the eutherian mammals. This transposition correlates with differences in the expression patterns of FIB-like proteins and with elevated Ks values potentially due to reduced evolutionary constraints of the duplicated copy. Our results point to a unique evolutionary event in mammals, between FIB and FIB-like genes, that led to non-redundant roles of the vital processes in which this protein is involved.	2020 10	Pereira-Santana, Alejandro; Pereira-Santana, A; Pereira-Santana; Gamboa-Tuz, Samuel David; Gamboa-Tuz, SD; Gamboa-Tuz; Zhao, Tao; Zhao, T; Zhao; Schranz, M Eric; Schranz, ME; Schranz; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Bayona, Andrea; Bayona, A; Bayona; Rodríguez-Zapata, Luis C; Rodríguez-Zapata, LC; Rodríguez-Zapata; Castano, Enrique; Castano, E; Castano	PLoS Comput Biol
33178158	Molecular Epidemiology of <i>Acinetobacter calcoaceticus</i>-<i>Acinetobacter baumannii</i> Complex Isolated From Children at the Hospital Infantil de México Federico Gómez.	The <i>Acinetobacter calcoaceticus</i>-<i>baumannii</i> (<i>Acb</i>) complex is regarded as a group of phenotypically indistinguishable opportunistic pathogens responsible for mainly causing hospital-acquired pneumonia and bacteremia. The aim of this study was to determine the frequency of isolation of the species that constitute the <i>Acb</i> complex, as well as their susceptibility to antibiotics, and their distribution at the Hospital Infantil de Mexico Federico Gomez (HIMFG). A total of 88 strains previously identified by Vitek 2®, 40 as <i>Acinetobacter baumannii</i> and 48 as <i>Acb</i> complex were isolated from 52 children from 07, January 2015 to 28, September 2017. <i>A. baumannii</i> accounted for 89.77% (79/88) of the strains; <i>Acinetobacter pittii</i>, 6.82% (6/88); and <i>Acinetobacter nosocomialis</i>, 3.40% (3/88). Most strains were recovered mainly from patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) and emergency wards. Blood cultures (BC) provided 44.32% (39/88) of strains. The 13.63% (12/88) of strains were associated with primary bacteremia, 3.4% (3/88) with secondary bacteremia, and 2.3% (2/88) with pneumonia. In addition, 44.32% (39/88) were multidrug-resistant (MDR) strains and, 11.36% (10/88) were extensively drug-resistant (XDR). All strains amplified the <i>bla</i> <sub>OXA-51</sub> gene; 51.13% (45/88), the <i>bla</i> <sub>OXA-23</sub> gene; 4.54% (4/88), the <i>bla</i> <sub>OXA-24</sub> gene; and 2.27% (2/88), the <i>bla</i> <sub>OXA-58</sub> gene. Plasmid profiles showed that the strains had 1-6 plasmids. The strains were distributed in 52 pulsotypes, and 24 showed identical restriction patterns, with a correlation coefficient of 1.0. Notably, some strains with the same pulsotype were isolated from different patients, wards, or years, suggesting the persistence of more than one clone. Twenty-seven sequence types (STs) were determined for the strains based on a Pasteur multilocus sequence typing (MLST) scheme using massive sequencing; the most prevalent was ST 156 (27.27%, 24/88). The Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats (CRISPR)-Cas I-Fb system provided amplification in <i>A. baumannii</i> and <i>A. pittii</i> strains (22.73%, 20/88). This study identified an increased number of MDR strains and the relationship among strains through molecular typing. The data suggest that more than one strain could be causing an infection in some patient. The implementation of molecular epidemiology allowed the characterization of a set of strains and identification of different attributes associated with its distribution in a specific environment.	2020	Mancilla-Rojano, Jetsi; Mancilla-Rojano, J; Mancilla-Rojano; Ochoa, Sara A; Ochoa, SA; Ochoa; Reyes-Grajeda, Juan Pablo; Reyes-Grajeda, JP; Reyes-Grajeda; Flores, Víctor; Flores, V; Flores; Medina-Contreras, Oscar; Medina-Contreras, O; Medina-Contreras; Espinosa-Mazariego, Karina; Espinosa-Mazariego, K; Espinosa-Mazariego; Parra-Ortega, Israel; Parra-Ortega, I; Parra-Ortega; Rosa-Zamboni, Daniela De La; Rosa-Zamboni, D; Rosa-Zamboni; Castellanos-Cruz, María Del Carmen; Castellanos-Cruz, MDC; Castellanos-Cruz; Arellano-Galindo, José; Arellano-Galindo, J; Arellano-Galindo; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Hernández-Castro, Rigoberto; Hernández-Castro, R; Hernández-Castro; Xicohtencatl-Cortes, Juan; Xicohtencatl-Cortes, J; Xicohtencatl-Cortes; Cruz-Córdova, Ariadnna; Cruz-Córdova, A; Cruz-Córdova	Front Microbiol
33049445	Arabidopsis adc-silenced line exhibits differential defense responses to Botrytis cinerea and Pseudomonas syringae infection.	During plant-microbe interactions, polyamines participate in the plant defense response. Previously, we reported that silencing of ADC genes in Arabidopsis thaliana causes a drastic reduction of polyamine levels as well as increments in reactive oxygen species content. In this study, we examined the response of the adc-silenced line to Botrytis cinerea and Pseudomonas syringae infection. The adc-silenced line was more susceptible to Botrytis cinerea, showing larger lesion length and a higher incidence of fungal infection. Pre-treatments with putrescine reestablished the response of the adc-silenced line to Botrytis cinerea, resulting in a similar phenotype to the parental plant. Expression levels of defense-related genes were analyzed during fungal infection showing that the salicylic acid-induced gene PR1 was up-regulated, while the jasmonic acid-related genes LOX3 and PDF1.2, as well as, the camalexin biosynthetic gene PAD3 were down-regulated in the adc-silenced line. Furthermore, methyl jasmonate pre-treatments reduced Botrytis cinerea infection in the adc-silenced line. On the other hand, the adc-silenced line showed an increased resistance to Pseudomonas syringae infection. SA-related genes such as PR1, ZAT1.2, WRKY54 and WRKY70 were highly expressed in the adc-silenced line upon bacterial interaction. Our data show that the adc-silenced line has altered the defense-response against Botrytis cinerea and Pseudomonas syringae, that is consistent with deregulation of SA- and JA-mediated response pathways.	2020 Nov	Chávez-Martínez, Ana Isabel; Chávez-Martínez, AI; Chávez-Martínez; Ortega-Amaro, María Azucena; Ortega-Amaro, MA; Ortega-Amaro; Torres, Martha; Torres, M; Torres; Serrano, Mario; Serrano, M; Serrano; Jiménez-Bremont, Juan Francisco; Jiménez-Bremont, JF; Jiménez-Bremont	Plant Physiol Biochem
32504325	Bacillus toyonensis COPE52 Modifies Lipid and Fatty Acid Composition, Exhibits Antifungal Activity, and Stimulates Growth of Tomato Plants Under Saline Conditions.	Salinity is one of the most important factors that limit the productivity of agricultural soils. Certain plant growth-promoting bacteria (PGPB) have the ability to stimulate the growth of crop plants even under salt stress. In the present study, we analysed the potential of PGPB Bacillus toyonensis COPE52 to improve the growth of tomato plants and its capacity to modify its membrane lipid and fatty acid composition under salt stress. Thus, strain COPE52 increased the relative amount of branched chain fatty acids (15:0i and 16:1∆9) and accumulation of an unknown membrane lipid, while phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) levels decreased during growth with 100 and 200 mM NaCl. Importantly, direct and indirect plant growth-promoting (PGP) mechanisms of B. toyonensis COPE52, such as indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), protease activity, biofilm formation, and antifungal activity against Botrytis cinerea, remained unchanged in the presence of NaCl in vitro, compared to controls without salt. In a greenhouse experiment, tomato plants (Lycopersicon esculentum 'Saladette') showed increased shoot and root length, higher dry biomass, and chlorophyll content when inoculated with B. toyonensis COPE52 at 0 and 100 mM NaCl. In summary, these results indicate that Bacillus toyonensis COPE52 can modify cell membrane lipid components as a potential protecting mechanism to maintain PGP traits under saline-soil conditions.	2020 Oct	Rojas-Solis, Daniel; Rojas-Solis, D; Rojas-Solis; Vences-Guzmán, Miguel A; Vences-Guzmán, MA; Vences-Guzmán; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Santoyo, Gustavo; Santoyo, G; Santoyo	Curr Microbiol
32995914	Rhizobium etli CE3-DsRed pMP604: a useful biological tool to study initial infection steps in Phaseolus vulgaris nodulation.	Rhizobium etli CE3-DsRed pMP604 drives infection 12-24 h earlier than R. etli CE3-DsRed and it is an excellent tool in live-cell imaging studies of IT developement in P. vulgaris roots. The study of the cellular dynamics of nodulation has frequently been limited by the difficulty of performing live-cell imaging in nodule primordia and legume roots, which are constituted by multiple cell layers, such is the case of Phaseolus vulgaris. Seeking conditions to reduce the time it takes for rhizobia to infect P. vulgaris root, we decided to explore the nodulation properties of Rhizobium etli CE3 pMP604, a strain that constitutively produces Nod factors through a flavonoids-independent transcriptional activation which is often used to purify Nod factors. Even though the strain infects 12-24 h earlier than the parental R. etli CE3 strain, infection thread (IT) formation, nodule organogenesis processes and N<sub>2</sub>-fixation activity are similar for both strains. Additionally, we have confirmed that R. etli CE3-DsRed pMP604 is an excellent tool to trace IT development in P. vulgaris roots.	2020 Sep	Dávila-Delgado, Raúl; Dávila-Delgado, R; Dávila-Delgado; Bañuelos-Vazquez, Luis Alfredo; Bañuelos-Vazquez, LA; Bañuelos-Vazquez; Monroy-Morales, Elizabeth; Monroy-Morales, E; Monroy-Morales; Sánchez-López, Rosana; Sánchez-López, R; Sánchez-López	Planta
32984920	Metabolic reconstruction of Pseudomonas chlororaphis ATCC 9446 to understand its metabolic potential as a phenazine-1-carboxamide-producing strain.	Pseudomonas chlororaphis is a plant-associated bacterium with reported antagonistic activity against different organisms and plant growth-promoting properties. P. chlororaphis possesses exciting biotechnological features shared with another Pseudomonas with a nonpathogenic phenotype. Part of the antagonistic role of P. chlororaphis is due to its production of a wide variety of phenazines. To expand the knowledge of the metabolic traits of this organism, we constructed the first experimentally validated genome-scale model of P. chlororaphis ATCC 9446, containing 1267 genes and 2289 reactions, and analyzed strategies to maximize its potential for the production of phenazine-1-carboxamide (PCN). The resulting model also describes the capability of P. chlororaphis to carry out the denitrification process and its ability to consume sucrose (Scr), trehalose, mannose, and galactose as carbon sources. Additionally, metabolic network analysis suggested fatty acids as the best carbon source for PCN production. Moreover, the optimization of PCN production was performed with glucose and glycerol. The optimal PCN production phenotype requires an increased carbon flux in TCA and glutamine synthesis. Our simulations highlight the intrinsic H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> flux associated with PCN production, which may generate cellular stress in an overproducing strain. These results suggest that an improved antioxidative strategy could lead to optimal performance of phenazine-producing strains of P. chlororaphis. KEY POINTS : • This is the first publication of a metabolic model for a strain of P. chlororaphis. • Genome-scale model is worthy tool to increase the knowledge of a non model organism. • Fluxes simulations indicate a possible effect of H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> on phenazines production. • P. chlororaphis can be a suitable model for a wide variety of compounds.	2020 Dec	Moreno-Avitia, Fabián; Moreno-Avitia, F; Moreno-Avitia; Utrilla, José; Utrilla, J; Utrilla; Bolívar, Francisco; Bolívar, F; Bolívar; Nogales, Juan; Nogales, J; Nogales; Escalante, Adelfo; Escalante, A; Escalante	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol
33042043	Genomic Analysis Reveals the Genetic Determinants Associated With Antibiotic Resistance in the Zoonotic Pathogen <i>Campylobacter</i> spp. Distributed Globally.	The genus <i>Campylobacter</i> groups 32 Gram-negative bacteria species, several being zoonotic pathogens and a major cause of human gastroenteritis worldwide. Antibiotic resistant <i>Campylobacter</i> is considered by the World Health Organization as a high priority pathogen for research and development of new antibiotics. Genetic elements related to antibiotic resistance in the classical <i>C. coli</i> and <i>C. jejuni</i> species, which infect humans and livestock, have been analyzed in numerous studies, mainly focused on local geographical areas. However, the presence of these resistance determinants in other <i>Campylobacter</i> species, as well as in <i>C. jejuni</i> and <i>C. coli</i> strains distributed globally, remains poorly studied. In this work, we analyzed the occurrence and distribution of antibiotic resistance factors in 237 <i>Campylobacter</i> closed genomes available in NCBI, obtained from isolates collected worldwide, in different dates, from distinct hosts and comprising 22 <i>Campylobacter</i> species. Our data revealed 18 distinct genetic determinants, genes or point mutations in housekeeping genes, associated with resistance to antibiotics from aminoglycosides, β-lactams, fluoroquinolones, lincosamides, macrolides, phenicols or tetracyclines classes, which are differentially distributed among the <i>Campylobacter</i> species tested, on chromosomes or plasmids. Three resistance determinants, the <i>bla</i> <sub>OXA-493</sub> and <i>bla</i> <sub>OXA-576</sub> genes, putatively related to β-lactams resistance, as well as the <i>lnu</i>(AN2) gene, putatively related to lincosamides resistance, had not been reported in <i>Campylobacter</i>; thus, they represent novel determinants for antibiotic resistance in <i>Campylobacter</i> spp., which expands the insight on the <i>Campylobacter</i> resistome. Interestingly, we found that some of the genetic determinants associated with antibiotic resistance are <i>Campylobacter</i> species-specific; e.g., the <i>bla</i> <sub>OXA-493</sub> gene and the T86V mutation in <i>gyrA</i> were found only in the <i>C. lari</i> group, whereas genes associated with aminoglycosides resistance were found only in <i>C. jejuni</i> and <i>C. coli</i>. Additional analyses revealed how are distributed the resistance and multidrug resistance <i>Campylobacter</i> genotypes assessed, with respect to hosts, geographical locations, and collection dates. Thus, our findings further expand the knowledge on the factors that can determine or favor the antibiotic resistance in <i>Campylobacter</i> species distributed globally, which can be useful to choose a suitable antibiotic treatment to control the zoonotic infections by these bacteria.	2020	Rivera-Mendoza, Daniel; Rivera-Mendoza, D; Rivera-Mendoza; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; Santamaría, Rosa I; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Bustamante, Víctor H; Bustamante, VH; Bustamante; Pérez-Morales, Deyanira; Pérez-Morales, D; Pérez-Morales	Front Microbiol
32887277	Soil Type Affects Organic Acid Production and Phosphorus Solubilization Efficiency Mediated by Several Native Fungal Strains from Mexico.	Phosphorus (P) is considered a scarce macronutrient for plants in most tropical soils. The application of rock phosphate (RP) has been used to fertilize crops, but the amount of P released is not always at a necessary level for the plant. An alternative to this problem is the use of Phosphorus Solubilizing Microorganisms (PSM) to release P from chemically unavailable forms. This study compared the P sorption capacity of soils (the ability to retain P, making it unavailable for the plant) and the profile of organic acids (OA) produced by fungal isolates and the in vitro solubilization efficiency of RP. <i>Trichoderma</i> and <i>Aspergillus</i> strains were assessed in media with or without RP and different soils (Andisol, Alfisol, Vertisol). The type and amount of OA and the amount of soluble P were quantified, and according to our data, under the conditions tested, significant differences were observed in the OA profiles and the amount of soluble P present in the different soils. The efficiency to solubilize RP lies in the release of OAs with low acidity constants independent of the concentration at which they are released. It is proposed that the main mechanism of RP dissolution is the production of OAs.	2020 Sep	Zúñiga-Silgado, Dorcas; Zúñiga-Silgado, D; Zúñiga-Silgado; Rivera-Leyva, Julio C; Rivera-Leyva, JC; Rivera-Leyva; Coleman, Jeffrey J; Coleman, JJ; Coleman; Sánchez-Reyez, Ayixon; Sánchez-Reyez, A; Sánchez-Reyez; Valencia-Díaz, Susana; Valencia-Díaz, S; Valencia-Díaz; Serrano, Mario; Serrano, M; Serrano; de-Bashan, Luz E; de-Bashan, LE; de-Bashan; Folch-Mallol, Jorge L; Folch-Mallol, JL; Folch-Mallol	Microorganisms
32661378	A quantitative method for proteome reallocation using minimal regulatory interventions.	Engineering resource allocation in biological systems is an ongoing challenge. Organisms allocate resources for ensuring survival, reducing the productivity of synthetic biology functions. Here we present a new approach for engineering the resource allocation of Escherichia coli by rationally modifying its transcriptional regulatory network. Our method (ReProMin) identifies the minimal set of genetic interventions that maximizes the savings in cell resources. To this end, we categorized transcription factors according to the essentiality of its targets and we used proteomic data to rank them. We designed the combinatorial removal of transcription factors that maximize the release of resources. Our resulting strain containing only three mutations, theoretically releasing 0.5% of its proteome, had higher proteome budget, increased production of an engineered metabolic pathway and showed that the regulatory interventions are highly specific. This approach shows that combining proteomic and regulatory data is an effective way of optimizing strains using conventional molecular methods.	2020 09	Lastiri-Pancardo, Gustavo; Lastiri-Pancardo, G; Lastiri-Pancardo; Mercado-Hernández, Jonathan S; Mercado-Hernández, JS; Mercado-Hernández; Kim, Juhyun; Kim, J; Kim; Jiménez, José I; Jiménez, JI; Jiménez; Utrilla, José; Utrilla, J; Utrilla	Nat Chem Biol
32823980	Aromatic Hydrocarbon Removal by Novel Extremotolerant <i>Exophiala</i> and <i>Rhodotorula</i> Spp. from an Oil Polluted Site in Mexico.	Since Aromatic hydrocarbons are recalcitrant and toxic, strategies to remove them are needed. The aim of this work was to isolate fungi capable of using aromatic hydrocarbons as carbon sources. Two isolates from an oil polluted site in Mexico were identified through morphological and molecular markers as a novel <i>Rhodotorula</i> sp. and an <i>Exophiala</i> sp. Both strains were able to grow in a wide range of pH media, from 4 to 12, showing their optimal growth at alkaline pH's and are both halotolerant. The <i>Exophiala</i> strain switched from hyphae to yeast morphotype in high salinity conditions. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of salt triggering dimorphism. The <i>Rhodotorula</i> strain, which is likely a new undescribed species, was capable of removing singled ringed aromatic compounds such as benzene, xylene, and toluene, but could not remove benzo[<i>a</i>] pyrene nor phenanthrene. Nevertheless, these hydrocarbons did not impair its growth. The <i>Exophiala</i> strain showed a different removal capacity. It could remove the polyaromatic hydrocarbons but performed poorly at removing toluene and xylene. Nevertheless, it still could grow well in the presence of the aromatic compounds. These strains could have a potential for aromatic compounds removal.	2020 Aug	Ide-Pérez, Martín R; Ide-Pérez, MR; Ide-Pérez; Fernández-López, Maikel Gilberto; Fernández-López, MG; Fernández-López; Sánchez-Reyes, Ayixon; Sánchez-Reyes, A; Sánchez-Reyes; Leija, Alfonso; Leija, A; Leija; Batista-García, Ramón Alberto; Batista-García, RA; Batista-García; Folch-Mallol, Jorge Luis; Folch-Mallol, JL; Folch-Mallol; Sánchez-Carbente, María Del Rayo; Sánchez-Carbente, MDR; Sánchez-Carbente	J Fungi (Basel)
32847781	Plant microbiota modified by plant domestication.	Human life became largely dependent on agricultural products after distinct crop-domestication events occurred around 10,000 years ago in different geographical sites. Domestication selected suitable plants for human agricultural practices with unexpected consequences on plant microbiota, which has notable effects on plant growth and health. Among other traits, domestication has changed root architecture, exudation, or defense responses that could have modified plant microbiota. Here we present the comparison of reported data on the microbiota from widely consumed cereals and legumes and their ancestors showing that different bacteria were found in domesticated and wild plant microbiomes in some cases. Considering the large variability in plant microbiota, adequate sampling efforts and function-based approaches are needed to further support differences between the microbiota from wild and domesticated plants. The study of wild plant microbiomes could provide a valuable resource of unexploited beneficial bacteria for crops.	2020 Sep	Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Aguirre-Noyola, José Luis; Aguirre-Noyola, JL; Aguirre-Noyola; Taco-Taype, Nataly; Taco-Taype, N; Taco-Taype; Martínez-Romero, Julio; Martínez-Romero, J; Martínez-Romero; Zuñiga-Dávila, Doris; Zuñiga-Dávila, D; Zuñiga-Dávila	Syst Appl Microbiol
32967123	Plasmid DNA Production in Proteome-Reduced <i>Escherichia coli</i>.	The design of optimal cell factories requires engineering resource allocation for maximizing product synthesis. A recently developed method to maximize the saving in cell resources released 0.5% of the proteome of <i>Escherichia coli</i> by deleting only three transcription factors. We assessed the capacity for plasmid DNA (pDNA) production in the proteome-reduced strain in a mineral medium, lysogeny, and terrific broths. In all three cases, the pDNA yield from biomass was between 33 and 53% higher in the proteome-reduced than in its wild type strain. When cultured in fed-batch mode in shake-flask, the proteome-reduced strain produced 74.8 mg L<sup>-1</sup> pDNA, which was four times greater than its wild-type strain. Nevertheless, the pDNA supercoiled fraction was less than 60% in all cases. Deletion of <i>recA</i> increased the pDNA yields in the wild type, but not in the proteome-reduced strain. Furthermore, <i>recA</i> mutants produced a higher fraction of supercoiled pDNA, compared to their parents. These results show that the novel proteome reduction approach is a promising starting point for the design of improved pDNA production hosts.	2020 Sep	de la Cruz, Mitzi; de la Cruz, M; de la Cruz; Ramírez, Elisa A; Ramírez, EA; Ramírez; Sigala, Juan-Carlos; Sigala, JC; Sigala; Utrilla, José; Utrilla, J; Utrilla; Lara, Alvaro R; Lara, AR; Lara	Microorganisms
32807071	Sex determination systems in reptiles are related to ambient temperature but not to the level of climatic fluctuation.	Vertebrates exhibit diverse sex determination systems and reptiles stand out by having highly variable sex determinations that include temperature-dependent and genotypic sex determination (TSD and GSD, respectively). Theory predicts that populations living in either highly variable or cold climatic conditions should evolve genotypic sex determination to buffer the populations from extreme sex ratios, yet these fundamental predictions have not been tested across a wide range of taxa.	2020 08	Cornejo-Páramo, Paola; Cornejo-Páramo, P; Cornejo-Páramo; Lira-Noriega, Andrés; Lira-Noriega, A; Lira-Noriega; Ramírez-Suástegui, Ciro; Ramírez-Suástegui, C; Ramírez-Suástegui; Méndez-de-la-Cruz, Fausto R; Méndez-de-la-Cruz, FR; Méndez-de-la-Cruz; Székely, Tamás; Székely, T; Székely; Urrutia, Araxi O; Urrutia, AO; Urrutia; Cortez, Diego; Cortez, D; Cortez	BMC Evol Biol
32954844	Isolation and first draft genome sequence of a linezolid-dependent <i>Staphylococcus aureus</i> clinical strain.	<b>Background:</b> Antibiotic-dependent pathogenic bacteria are sporadically isolated from patients that received prolonged antibiotic treatments. Evolution of antibiotics dependence and its clinical implications are scarcely studied. <b>Materials & methods:</b> A linezolid-dependent <i>Staphylococcus aureus</i> strain was isolated from a cystic fibrosis patient. A draft genome sequence was obtained and searched for known antibiotics resistance determinants and virulence factors. <b>Results:</b> The genome was assembled into 79 contigs for a total of 2.83 Mbp. This strain is a sequence type 5 methicillin-resistant <i>Staphylococcus aureus</i> with a type I SCC<i>mec</i> cassette also conserving the Panton-Valentine leukocidin. The G2576T substitution, conferring linezolid resistance, was harbored by all five copies of the 23S rRNA. <b>Conclusion:</b> The linezolid-dependent strain is related to a strain circulating in Latin America that acquired a mutation conferring linezolid resistance.	2020 08	García-Angulo, Víctor A; García-Angulo, VA; García-Angulo; Herve, Beatrice; Herve, B; Herve; Melo, Joel; Melo, J; Melo; Sanhueza, Camila; Sanhueza, C; Sanhueza; la Fuente, Sebastián De; la Fuente, S; la Fuente; Aguirre, Luis Lozano; Aguirre, LL; Aguirre; Baysdorfer, Chris; Baysdorfer, C; Baysdorfer; Ulloa, María Teresa; Ulloa, MT; Ulloa	Future Microbiol
32503911	Nitrogen Fixation in Pozol, a Traditional Fermented Beverage.	Traditional fermentations have been widely studied from the microbiological point of view, but little is known from the functional perspective. In this work, nitrogen fixation by free-living nitrogen-fixing bacteria was conclusively demonstrated in pozol, a traditional Mayan beverage prepared with nixtamalized and fermented maize dough. Three aspects of nitrogen fixation were investigated to ensure that fixation actually happens in the dough: (i) the detection of acetylene reduction activity directly in the substrate, (ii) the presence of potential diazotrophs, and (iii) an <i>in situ</i> increase in acetylene reduction by inoculation with one of the microorganisms isolated from the dough. Three genera were identified by sequencing the 16S rRNA and <i>nifH</i> genes as <i>Kosakonia</i>, <i>Klebsiella</i>, and <i>Enterobacter</i>, and their ability to fix nitrogen was confirmed.<b>IMPORTANCE</b> Nitrogen-fixing bacteria are found in different niches, as symbionts in plants, in the intestinal microbiome of several insects, and as free-living microorganisms. Their use in agriculture for plant growth promotion via biological nitrogen fixation has been extensively reported. This work demonstrates the ecological and functional importance that these bacteria can have in food fermentations, reevaluating the presence of these genera as an element that enriches the nutritional value of the dough.	2020 08	Rizo, Jocelin; Rizo, J; Rizo; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Guillén, Daniel; Guillén, D; Guillén; Wacher, Carmen; Wacher, C; Wacher; Martinez-Romero, Esperanza; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Sánchez, Sergio; Sánchez, S; Sánchez; Rodríguez-Sanoja, Romina; Rodríguez-Sanoja, R; Rodríguez-Sanoja	Appl Environ Microbiol
32468038	Principal component analysis on LC‑MS/MS and 2DE‑MALDI‑TOF in glioblastoma cell lines reveals that mitochondria act as organelle sensors of the metabolic state in glioblastoma.	Glioblastoma is a difficult disease to diagnose. Proteomic techniques are commonly applied in biomedical research, and can be useful for early detection, making an accurate diagnosis and reducing mortality. The relevance of mitochondria in brain development and function is well known; therefore, mitochondria may influence the development of glioblastoma. The T98G (with oxidative metabolism) and U87MG (with glycolytic metabolism) cell lines are considered to be useful glioblastoma models for studying these tumors and the role of mitochondria in key aspects of this disease, such as prognosis, metastasis and apoptosis. In the present study, principal component analysis of protein abundance data identified by liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry (LC‑MS/MS) and matrix‑assisted laser desorption/ionization‑time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI‑TOF) from 2D gels indicated that representative mitochondrial proteins were associated with glioblastoma. The selected proteins were organized into T98G‑ and U87MG‑specific protein‑protein interaction networks to demonstrate the representativeness of both proteomic techniques. Gene Ontology overrepresentation analysis based on the relevant proteins revealed that mitochondrial processes were associated with metabolic changes, invasion and metastasis in glioblastoma, along with other non‑mitochondrial processes, such as DNA translation, chaperone responses and autophagy. Despite the lower resolution of 2D electrophoresis, principal component analysis yielded information of comparable quality to that of LC‑MS/MS. The present analysis pipeline described a specific and more complete metabolic status for each cell line, defined a clear mitochondrial performance for distinct glioblastoma tumors, and introduced a useful strategy to understand the heterogeneity of glioblastoma.	2020 08	Gómez-Caudillo, Leopoldo; Gómez-Caudillo, L; Gómez-Caudillo; Ortega-Lozano, Ariadna J; Ortega-Lozano, AJ; Ortega-Lozano; Martínez-Batallar, Ángel G; Martínez-Batallar, ÁG; Martínez-Batallar; Rosas-Vargas, Haydee; Rosas-Vargas, H; Rosas-Vargas; Minauro-Sanmiguel, Fernando; Minauro-Sanmiguel, F; Minauro-Sanmiguel; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara	Oncol Rep
32461312	The Concerted Action of Two B3-Like Prophage Genes Excludes Superinfecting Bacteriophages by Blocking DNA Entry into Pseudomonas aeruginosa.	In this study, we describe seven vegetative phage genomes homologous to the historic phage B3 that infect <i>Pseudomonas aeruginosa</i> Like other phage groups, the B3-like group contains conserved (core) and variable (accessory) open reading frames (ORFs) grouped at fixed regions in their genomes; however, in either case, many ORFs remain without assigned functions. We constructed lysogens of the seven B3-like phages in strain Ps33 of <i>P. aeruginosa</i>, a novel clinical isolate, and assayed the exclusion phenotype against a variety of temperate and virulent superinfecting phages. In addition to the classic exclusion conferred by the phage immunity repressor, the phenotype observed in B3-like lysogens suggested the presence of other exclusion genes. We set out to identify the genes responsible for this exclusion phenotype. Phage Ps56 was chosen as the study subject since it excluded numerous temperate and virulent phages. Restriction of the Ps56 genome, cloning of several fragments, and resection of the fragments that retained the exclusion phenotype allowed us to identify two core ORFs, so far without any assigned function, as responsible for a type of exclusion. Neither gene expressed separately from plasmids showed activity, but the concurrent expression of both ORFs is needed for exclusion. Our data suggest that phage adsorption occurs but that phage genome translocation to the host's cytoplasm is defective. To our knowledge, this is the first report on this type of exclusion mediated by a prophage in <i>P. aeruginosa</i> <b>IMPORTANCE</b> <i>Pseudomonas aeruginosa</i> is a Gram-negative bacterium frequently isolated from infected immunocompromised patients, and the strains are resistant to a broad spectrum of antibiotics. Recently, the use of phages has been proposed as an alternative therapy against multidrug-resistant bacteria. However, this approach may present various hurdles. This work addresses the problem that pathogenic bacteria may be lysogenized by phages carrying genes encoding resistance against secondary infections, such as those used in phage therapy. Discovering phage genes that exclude superinfecting phages not only assigns novel functions to orphan genes in databases but also provides insight into selection of the proper phages for use in phage therapy.	2020 07	Carballo-Ontiveros, Marco Antonio; Carballo-Ontiveros, MA; Carballo-Ontiveros; Cazares, Adrián; Cazares, A; Cazares; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Kameyama, Luis; Kameyama, L; Kameyama; Guarneros, Gabriel; Guarneros, G; Guarneros	J Virol
32849381	Transfer of the Symbiotic Plasmid of <i>Rhizobium etli</i> CFN42 to Endophytic Bacteria Inside Nodules.	Conjugative transfer is one of the mechanisms allowing diversification and evolution of bacteria. <i>Rhizobium etli</i> CFN42 is a bacterial strain whose habitat is the rhizosphere and is able to form nodules as a result of the nitrogen-fixing symbiotic relationship it may establish with the roots of <i>Phaseolus vulgaris</i>. <i>R. etli</i> CFN42 contains one chromosome and six large plasmids (pRet42a - pRet42f). Most of the genetic information involved in the establishment of the symbiosis is localized on plasmid pRet42d, named as the symbiotic plasmid (pSym). This plasmid is able to perform conjugation, using pSym encoded transfer genes controlled by the RctA/RctB system. Another plasmid of CFN42, pRet42a, has been shown to perform conjugative transfer not only <i>in vitro</i>, but also on the surface of roots and inside nodules, using other rhizobia as recipients. In addition to the rhizobia involved in the formation of nodules, these structures have been shown to contain endophytic bacteria from different genera and species. In this work, we have explored the conjugative transfer of the pSym (pRet42d) from <i>R. etli</i> CFN42 to endophytic bacteria as putative recipients, using as donor a CFN42 derivative labeled with GFP in the pRet42d and RFP in the chromosome. We were able to isolate some transconjugants, which inherit the GFP, but not the RFP marker. Some of them were identified, analyzed and evaluated for their ability to nodulate. We found transconjugants from genera such as <i>Stenotrophomonas</i>, <i>Achromobacter</i>, and <i>Bacillus</i>, among others. Although all the transconjugants carried the GFP marker, and <i>nod, fix</i>, and <i>nif</i> genes from pRet42d, not all were able to nodulate. Ultrastructure microscopy analysis showed some differences in the structure of the nodules of one of the transconjugants. A replicon of the size of pRet42d (371 Kb) could not be visualized in the transconjugants, suggesting that the pSym or a segment of the plasmid is integrated in the chromosome of the recipients. These findings strengthen the proposal that nodules constitute a propitious environment for exchange of genetic information among bacteria, in addition to their function as structures where nitrogen fixation and assimilation takes place.	2020	Bañuelos-Vazquez, Luis Alfredo; Bañuelos-Vazquez, LA; Bañuelos-Vazquez; Cazares, Daniel; Cazares, D; Cazares; Rodríguez, Susana; Rodríguez, S; Rodríguez; Cervantes-De la Luz, Laura; Cervantes-De la Luz, L; Cervantes-De la Luz; Sánchez-López, Rosana; Sánchez-López, R; Sánchez-López; Castellani, Lucas G; Castellani, LG; Castellani; Tejerizo, Gonzalo Torres; Tejerizo, GT; Tejerizo; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom	Front Microbiol
32571917	Genetic dominance governs the evolution and spread of mobile genetic elements in bacteria.	Mobile genetic elements (MGEs), such as plasmids, promote bacterial evolution through horizontal gene transfer (HGT). However, the rules governing the repertoire of traits encoded on MGEs remain unclear. In this study, we uncovered the central role of genetic dominance shaping genetic cargo in MGEs, using antibiotic resistance as a model system. MGEs are typically present in more than one copy per host bacterium, and as a consequence, genetic dominance favors the fixation of dominant mutations over recessive ones. In addition, genetic dominance also determines the phenotypic effects of horizontally acquired MGE-encoded genes, silencing recessive alleles if the recipient bacterium already carries a wild-type copy of the gene. The combination of these two effects governs the catalog of genes encoded on MGEs. Our results help to understand how MGEs evolve and spread, uncovering the neglected influence of genetic dominance on bacterial evolution. Moreover, our findings offer a framework to forecast the spread and evolvability of MGE-encoded genes, which encode traits of key human interest, such as virulence or antibiotic resistance.	2020 07	Rodríguez-Beltrán, Jerónimo; Rodríguez-Beltrán, J; Rodríguez-Beltrán; Sørum, Vidar; Sørum, V; Sørum; Toll-Riera, Macarena; Toll-Riera, M; Toll-Riera; de la Vega, Carmen; de la Vega, C; de la Vega; Peña-Miller, Rafael; Peña-Miller, R; Peña-Miller; San Millán, Álvaro; San Millán, Á; San Millán	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
33457783	The mitogenome of <i>Pseudocrossidium replicatum</i>, a desiccation-tolerant moss.	Bryophytes are the earliest plant group on Earth. They are a fundamental component of many ecosystems around the World. Some of their main roles are related to soil development, water retention, and biogeochemical cycling. Bryophytes include liverworts, hornworts, and mosses. The sequencing of chloroplast and mitochondria genomes has been useful to elucidate the taxonomy of this heterogeneous plant group. To date, despite their ecological importance only 41 mosses mitogenomes have been deposited in the GenBank. Here, the complete mitochondria genome sequence of <i>Pseudocrossidium replicatum</i>, a moss of the Pottiaceae family isolated in Tlaxcala, Mexico, is reported. The mitochondrial genome size of <i>P. replicatum</i> comprises 105,495 bp and contains the groups of genes described for other bryophytes mitogenomes. Our phylogenetic analysis shows that during the evolution of the mosses' mitogenome, <i>nad7</i>, <i>rps4</i>, <i>rpl16</i>, and <i>rpl10</i> genes were lost independently in several lineages. The complete mitogenome sequence reported here would be a useful tool for our comprehension of the evolutionary and population genetics of this group of plants.	2020 Jun	Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Guerrero, Gabriela; Guerrero, G; Guerrero; Ríos, Selma; Ríos, S; Ríos; Arroyo, Analilia; Arroyo, A; Arroyo; Villalobos, Miguel Angel; Villalobos, MA; Villalobos; Porta, Helena; Porta, H; Porta	Mitochondrial DNA B Resour
32268286	Bioimmobilization of toxic metals by precipitation of carbonates using Sporosarcina luteola: An in vitro study and application to sulfide-bearing tailings.	Metal release from mining wastes is a major environmental problem affecting ecosystems that requires effective, low-cost strategies for prevention and reclamation. The capacity of two strains (UB3 and UB5) of Sporosarcina luteola was investigated to induce the sequestration of metals by precipitation of carbonates in vitro and under microcosm conditions. These strains carry the ureC gene and have high urease activity. Also, they are highly resistant to metals and have the capacity for producing metallophores and arsenophores. SEM, EDX and XRD reveal that the two strains induced precipitation of calcite, vaterite and magnesian calcite as well as several (M<sup>2+</sup>)CO<sub>3</sub> such as hydromagnesite (Mg<sup>2+</sup>), rhodochrosite (Mn<sup>2+</sup>), cerussite (Pb<sup>2+</sup>), otavite (Cd<sup>2+</sup>), strontianite (Sr<sup>2+</sup>), witherite (Ba<sup>2+</sup>) and hydrozincite (Zn<sup>2+</sup>) in vitro. Inoculation of the mixed culture of UB3+UB5 in tailings increased the pH and induced the precipitation of vaterite, calcite and smithsonite enhancing biocementation and reducing pore size and permeability slowing down the oxidation of residual sulfides. Results further demonstrated that the strains of S. luteola immobilize bioavailable toxic elements through the precipitation and coprecipitation of thermodynamically stable (M<sup>2+</sup>)CO<sub>3</sub>, Fe-Mn oxyhydroxides and organic chelates.	2020 Jul	Cuaxinque-Flores, Gustavo; Cuaxinque-Flores, G; Cuaxinque-Flores; Aguirre-Noyola, José Luis; Aguirre-Noyola, JL; Aguirre-Noyola; Hernández-Flores, Giovanni; Hernández-Flores, G; Hernández-Flores; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Romero-Ramírez, Yanet; Romero-Ramírez, Y; Romero-Ramírez; Talavera-Mendoza, Oscar; Talavera-Mendoza, O; Talavera-Mendoza	Sci Total Environ
32428730	Ca<sub>V</sub>3.1 channel pore pseudo-symmetry revealed by selectivity filter mutations in its domains I/II.	There is growing evidence indicating that the pore structure of voltage-gated ion channels (VGICs) influences gating besides their conductance. Regarding low voltage-activated (LVA) Ca<sup>2+</sup> channels, it has been demonstrated that substitutions of the pore aspartate (D) by a glutamate (D-to-E substitution) in domains III and IV alter channel gating properties such as a positive shift in the channel activation voltage dependence. In the present report, we evaluated the effects of E-to-D substitution in domains I and II on the Ca<sub>V</sub>3.1 channel gating properties. Our results indicate that substitutions in these two domains differentially modify the gating properties of Ca<sub>V</sub>3.1 channels. The channel with a single mutation in domain I (DEDD) presented slower activation and faster inactivation kinetics and a slower recovery from inactivation, as compared with the WT channel. In contrast, the single mutant in domain II (EDDD) presented a small but significant negative shift of activation voltage dependence with faster activation and slower inactivation kinetics. Finally, the double mutant channel (DDDD) presented somehow intermediate properties with respect to the two single mutants but with fastest deactivation kinetics. Overall, our results indicate that single amino acid modification of the selectivity filter of LVA Ca<sup>2+</sup> channels in distinct domains differentially influence their gating properties, supporting a pore pseudo-symmetry.	2020 07	Garza-López, Edgar; Garza-López, E; Garza-López; Aldana, Andrés; Aldana, A; Aldana; Darszon, Alberto; Darszon, A; Darszon; Nishigaki, Takuya; Nishigaki, T; Nishigaki; López-González, Ignacio; López-González, I; López-González	Cell Calcium
32702006	High mortality in an outbreak of multidrug resistant Acinetobacter baumannii infection introduced to an oncological hospital by a patient transferred from a general hospital.	To describe the clinical features, outcomes, and molecular epidemiology of an outbreak of multidrug resistant (MDR) A. baumannii.	2020	Cornejo-Juárez, Patricia; Cornejo-Juárez, P; Cornejo-Juárez; Cevallos, Miguel Angel; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Castro-Jaimes, Semiramis; Castro-Jaimes, S; Castro-Jaimes; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Velázquez-Acosta, Consuelo; Velázquez-Acosta, C; Velázquez-Acosta; Martínez-Oliva, David; Martínez-Oliva, D; Martínez-Oliva; Pérez-Oseguera, Angeles; Pérez-Oseguera, A; Pérez-Oseguera; Rivera-Buendía, Frida; Rivera-Buendía, F; Rivera-Buendía; Volkow-Fernández, Patricia; Volkow-Fernández, P; Volkow-Fernández	PLoS One
32611704	Phylogeographical Analyses and Antibiotic Resistance Genes of <i>Acinetobacter johnsonii</i> Highlight Its Clinical Relevance.	<i>Acinetobacter johnsonii</i> has been severely understudied and its population structure and the presence of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) are very much uncertain. Our phylogeographical analysis shows that intercontinental transmission has occurred frequently and that different lineages are circulating within single countries; notably, clinical and nonclinical strains are not well differentiated from one another. Importantly, in this species recombination is a significant source of single nucleotide polymorphisms. Furthermore, our results show this species could be an important reservoir of ARGs since it has a significant amount of ARGs, and many of them show signals of horizontal gene transfer. Thus, this study clearly points out the clinical importance of <i>A. johnsonii</i> and the urgent need to better appreciate its genomic diversity.	2020 07	Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Mateo-Estrada, Valeria; Mateo-Estrada, V; Mateo-Estrada; Gonzalez-Rocha, Gerardo; Gonzalez-Rocha, G; Gonzalez-Rocha; Opazo-Capurro, Andrés; Opazo-Capurro, A; Opazo-Capurro	mSphere
32665585	Redefining fundamental concepts of transcription initiation in bacteria.	Despite enormous progress in understanding the fundamentals of bacterial gene regulation, our knowledge remains limited when compared with the number of bacterial genomes and regulatory systems to be discovered. Derived from a small number of initial studies, classic definitions for concepts of gene regulation have evolved as the number of characterized promoters has increased. Together with discoveries made using new technologies, this knowledge has led to revised generalizations and principles. In this Expert Recommendation, we suggest precise, updated definitions that support a logical, consistent conceptual framework of bacterial gene regulation, focusing on transcription initiation. The resulting concepts can be formalized by ontologies for computational modelling, laying the foundation for improved bioinformatics tools, knowledge-based resources and scientific communication. Thus, this work will help researchers construct better predictive models, with different formalisms, that will be useful in engineering, synthetic biology, microbiology and genetics.	2020 11	Mejía-Almonte, Citlalli; Mejía-Almonte, C; Mejía-Almonte; Busby, Stephen J W; Busby, SJW; Busby; Wade, Joseph T; Wade, JT; Wade; van Helden, Jacques; van Helden, J; van Helden; Arkin, Adam P; Arkin, AP; Arkin; Stormo, Gary D; Stormo, GD; Stormo; Eilbeck, Karen; Eilbeck, K; Eilbeck; Palsson, Bernhard O; Palsson, BO; Palsson; Galagan, James E; Galagan, JE; Galagan; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nat Rev Genet
32284321	The Salmonella enterica Serovar Typhi <i>ltrR</i> Gene Encodes Two Proteins Whose Transcriptional Expression Is Upregulated by Alkaline pH and Repressed at Their Promoters and Coding Regions by H-NS and Lrp.	LtrR is a LysR-type regulator involved in the positive expression of <i>ompR</i> to promote <i>ompC</i> and <i>ompF</i> expression. This regulatory network is fundamental for the control of bacterial transformation and resistance to the bile salt sodium deoxycholate in <i>Salmonella enterica</i> serovar Typhi. In this work, the transcriptional regulation of <i>ltrR</i> was characterized, revealing that the use of alternative promoters results in two transcripts. The larger one, the <i>ltrR2</i> mRNA, was repressed at promoter and coding regions by H-NS, whereas Lrp repressed its expression at the coding region. In the case of the second and shorter <i>ltrR1</i> transcript, it was repressed only at the coding region by H-NS and Lrp. Remarkably, pH 7.5 is a positive signal involved in the transcriptional expression of both <i>ltrR</i> units. Translational fusions and Western blot experiments demonstrated that <i>ltrR2</i> and <i>ltrR1</i> mRNAs encode the LtrR2 and LtrR1 proteins. This study adds new data on the complex genetic and regulatory characteristics of one of the most predominant types of transcriptional factors in bacteria, the LysR-type transcriptional regulators.<b>IMPORTANCE</b> The LysR-type transcriptional regulators are present in viruses, archaea, bacteria, and eukaryotic cells. Furthermore, these proteins are the most abundant transcriptional factors in bacteria. Here, we demonstrate that two LysR-type proteins are generated from the <i>ltrR</i> gene. These proteins are genetically induced by pH and repressed at the promoter and coding regions by the global regulators H-NS and Lrp. Thus, novel basic aspects of the complex genetic regulation of the LysR-type transcriptional regulators are described.	2020 06	Rebollar-Flores, J E; Rebollar-Flores, JE; Rebollar-Flores; Medina-Aparicio, L; Medina-Aparicio, L; Medina-Aparicio; Osio-Becerro, V E; Osio-Becerro, VE; Osio-Becerro; Villarreal, J M; Villarreal, JM; Villarreal; Mayo, S; Mayo, S; Mayo; Mendoza, B D; Mendoza, BD; Mendoza; Rodríguez-Gutierrez, S; Rodríguez-Gutierrez, S; Rodríguez-Gutierrez; Olvera, L; Olvera, L; Olvera; Dávila, S; Dávila, S; Dávila; Encarnación, S; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Martínez-Batallar, A G; Martínez-Batallar, AG; Martínez-Batallar; Calva, E; Calva, E; Calva; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas	J Bacteriol
32625185	Structure and Evolution of <i>Acinetobacter baumannii</i> Plasmids.	<i>Acinetobacter baumannii</i> is an emergent bacterial pathogen that provokes many types of infections in hospitals around the world. The genome of this organism consists of a chromosome and plasmids. These plasmids vary over a wide size range and many of them have been linked to the acquisition of antibiotic-resistance genes. Our bioinformatic analyses indicate that <i>A. baumannii</i> plasmids belong to a small number of plasmid lineages. The general structure of these lineages seems to be very stable and consists not only of genes involved in plasmid maintenance functions but of gene sets encoding poorly characterized proteins, not obviously linked to survival in the hospital setting, and opening the possibility that they improve the parasitic properties of plasmids. An analysis of genes involved in replication, suggests that members of the same plasmid lineage are part of the same plasmid incompatibility group. The same analysis showed the necessity of classifying the Rep proteins in ten new groups, under the scheme proposed by Bertini et al. (2010). Also, we show that some plasmid lineages have the potential capacity to replicate in many bacterial genera including those embracing human pathogen species, while others seem to replicate only within the limits of the <i>Acinetobacter</i> genus. Moreover, some plasmid lineages are widely distributed along the <i>A. baumannii</i> phylogenetic tree. Despite this, a number of them lack genes involved in conjugation or mobilization functions. Interestingly, only 34.6% of the plasmids analyzed here possess antibiotic resistance genes and most of them belong to fourteen plasmid lineages of the twenty one described here. Gene flux between plasmid lineages appears primarily limited to transposable elements, which sometimes carry antibiotic resistance genes. In most plasmid lineages transposable elements and antibiotic resistance genes are secondary acquisitions. Finally, broad host-range plasmids appear to have played a crucial role.	2020	Salgado-Camargo, Abraham D; Salgado-Camargo, AD; Salgado-Camargo; Castro-Jaimes, Semiramis; Castro-Jaimes, S; Castro-Jaimes; Gutierrez-Rios, Rosa-Maria; Gutierrez-Rios, RM; Gutierrez-Rios; Lozano, Luis F; Lozano, LF; Lozano; Altamirano-Pacheco, Luis; Altamirano-Pacheco, L; Altamirano-Pacheco; Silva-Sanchez, Jesús; Silva-Sanchez, J; Silva-Sanchez; Pérez-Oseguera, Ángeles; Pérez-Oseguera, Á; Pérez-Oseguera; Volkow, Patricia; Volkow, P; Volkow; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	Front Microbiol
32510151	Genomic consequences of dietary diversification and parallel evolution due to nectarivory in leaf-nosed bats.	The New World leaf-nosed bats (Phyllostomids) exhibit a diverse spectrum of feeding habits and innovations in their nutrient acquisition and foraging mechanisms. However, the genomic signatures associated with their distinct diets are unknown.	2020 06	Gutiérrez-Guerrero, Yocelyn T; Gutiérrez-Guerrero, YT; Gutiérrez-Guerrero; Ibarra-Laclette, Enrique; Ibarra-Laclette, E; Ibarra-Laclette; Martínez Del Río, Carlos; Martínez Del Río, C; Martínez Del Río; Barrera-Redondo, Josué; Barrera-Redondo, J; Barrera-Redondo; Rebollar, Eria A; Rebollar, EA; Rebollar; Ortega, Jorge; Ortega, J; Ortega; León-Paniagua, Livia; León-Paniagua, L; León-Paniagua; Urrutia, Araxi; Urrutia, A; Urrutia; Aguirre-Planter, Erika; Aguirre-Planter, E; Aguirre-Planter; Eguiarte, Luis E; Eguiarte, LE; Eguiarte	Gigascience
32392469	Single-Cell Tracing Dissects Regulation of Maintenance and Inheritance of Transcriptional Reinduction Memory.	Transcriptional memory of gene expression enables adaptation to repeated stimuli across many organisms. However, the regulation and heritability of transcriptional memory in single cells and through divisions remains poorly understood. Here, we combined microfluidics with single-cell live imaging to monitor Saccharomyces cerevisiae galactokinase 1 (GAL1) expression over multiple generations. By applying pedigree analysis, we dissected and quantified the maintenance and inheritance of transcriptional reinduction memory in individual cells through multiple divisions. We systematically screened for loss- and gain-of-memory knockouts to identify memory regulators in thousands of single cells. We identified new loss-of-memory mutants, which affect memory inheritance into progeny. We also unveiled a gain-of-memory mutant, elp6Δ, and suggest that this new phenotype can be mediated through decreased histone occupancy at the GAL1 promoter. Our work uncovers principles of maintenance and inheritance of gene expression states and their regulators at the single-cell level.	2020 06	Bheda, Poonam; Bheda, P; Bheda; Aguilar-Gómez, Diana; Aguilar-Gómez, D; Aguilar-Gómez; Becker, Nils B; Becker, NB; Becker; Becker, Johannes; Becker, J; Becker; Stavrou, Emmanouil; Stavrou, E; Stavrou; Kukhtevich, Igor; Kukhtevich, I; Kukhtevich; Höfer, Thomas; Höfer, T; Höfer; Maerkl, Sebastian; Maerkl, S; Maerkl; Charvin, Gilles; Charvin, G; Charvin; Marr, Carsten; Marr, C; Marr; Kirmizis, Antonis; Kirmizis, A; Kirmizis; Schneider, Robert; Schneider, R; Schneider	Mol Cell
32560407	Characterization of Extremely Drug-Resistant and Hypervirulent <i>Acinetobacter baumannii</i> AB030.	<i>Acinetobacter baumannii</i> is an important nosocomial bacterial pathogen. Multidrug-resistant isolates of <i>A. baumannii</i> are reported worldwide. Some <i>A. baumannii</i> isolates display resistance to nearly all antibiotics, making treatment of infections very challenging. As the need for new and effective antibiotics against <i>A. baumannii</i> becomes increasingly urgent, there is a need to understand the mechanisms of antibiotic resistance and virulence in this organism. In this work, comparative genomics was used to understand the mechanisms of antibiotic resistance and virulence in AB030, an extremely drug-resistant and hypervirulent strain of <i>A. baumannii</i> that is a representative of a recently emerged lineage of <i>A. baumannii</i> International Clone V. In order to characterize AB030, we carried out a genomic and phenotypic comparison with LAC-4, a previously described hyper-resistant and hypervirulent isolate. AB030 contains a number of antibiotic resistance- and virulence-associated genes that are not present in LAC-4. A number of these genes are present on mobile elements. This work shows the importance of characterizing the members of new lineages of <i>A. baumannii</i> in order to determine the development of antibiotic resistance and virulence in this organism.	2020 Jun	Singh, Manu; Singh, M; Singh; De Silva, P Malaka; De Silva, PM; De Silva; Al-Saadi, Yasser; Al-Saadi, Y; Al-Saadi; Switala, Jacek; Switala, J; Switala; Loewen, Peter C; Loewen, PC; Loewen; Hausner, Georg; Hausner, G; Hausner; Chen, Wangxue; Chen, W; Chen; Hernandez, Ismael; Hernandez, I; Hernandez; Castillo-Ramirez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramirez, S; Castillo-Ramirez; Kumar, Ayush; Kumar, A; Kumar	Antibiotics (Basel)
32433751	Viviparous Reptile Regarded to Have Temperature-Dependent Sex Determination Has Old XY Chromosomes.	The water skinks Eulamprus tympanum and Eulamprus heatwolei show thermally induced sex determination where elevated temperatures give rise to male offspring. Paradoxically, Eulamprus species reproduce in temperatures of 12-15 °C making them outliers when compared with reptiles that use temperature as a cue for sex determination. Moreover, these two species are among the very few viviparous reptiles reported to have thermally induced sex determination. Thus, we tested whether these skinks possess undetected sex chromosomes with thermal override. We produced transcriptome and genome data for E. heatwolei. We found that E. heatwolei presents XY chromosomes that include 14 gametologs with regulatory functions. The Y chromosomal region is 79-116 Myr old and shared between water and spotted skinks. Our work provides clear evidence that climate could be useful to predict the type of sex determination systems in reptiles and it also indicates that viviparity is strictly associated with sex chromosomes.	2020 06	Cornejo-Páramo, Paola; Cornejo-Páramo, P; Cornejo-Páramo; Dissanayake, Duminda S B; Dissanayake, DSB; Dissanayake; Lira-Noriega, Andrés; Lira-Noriega, A; Lira-Noriega; Martínez-Pacheco, Mónica L; Martínez-Pacheco, ML; Martínez-Pacheco; Acosta, Armando; Acosta, A; Acosta; Ramírez-Suástegui, Ciro; Ramírez-Suástegui, C; Ramírez-Suástegui; Méndez-de-la-Cruz, Fausto R; Méndez-de-la-Cruz, FR; Méndez-de-la-Cruz; Székely, Tamás; Székely, T; Székely; Urrutia, Araxi O; Urrutia, AO; Urrutia; Georges, Arthur; Georges, A; Georges; Cortez, Diego; Cortez, D; Cortez	Genome Biol Evol
32456693	Correction to: Genome analysis of Salmonella enterica subsp. diarizonae isolates from invasive human infections reveals enrichment of virulence-related functions in lineage ST1256.	An amendment to this paper has been published and can be accessed via the original article.	2020 05	Giner-Lamia, Joaquín; Giner-Lamia, J; Giner-Lamia; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Betancor, Laura; Betancor, L; Betancor; Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva; Bisio, Julieta; Bisio, J; Bisio; Soleto, Lorena; Soleto, L; Soleto; Chabalgoity, José A; Chabalgoity, JA; Chabalgoity; Puente, José Luis; Puente, JL; Puente; Salmonella CYTED Network; García-Del Portillo, Francisco; García-Del Portillo, F; García-Del Portillo	BMC Genomics
32670207	Chromosome Architecture and Gene Content of the Emergent Pathogen <i>Acinetobacter haemolyticus</i>.	<i>Acinetobacter haemolyticus</i> is a Gammaproteobacterium that has been involved in serious diseases frequently linked to the nosocomial environment. Most of the strains causing such infections are sensitive to a wide variety of antibiotics, but recent reports indicate that this pathogen is acquiring very efficiently carbapenem-resistance determinants like the <i>bla</i>NDM-1 gene, all over the world. With this work we contribute with a collection set of 31 newly sequenced nosocomial <i>A. haemolyticus</i> isolates. Genome analysis of these sequences and others collected from RefSeq indicates that their chromosomes are organized in 12 syntenic blocks that contain most of the core genome genes. These blocks are separated by hypervariable regions that are rich in unique gene families, but also have signals of horizontal gene transfer. Genes involved in virulence or encoding different secretion systems are located inside syntenic regions and have recombination signals. The relative order of the synthetic blocks along the <i>A. haemolyticus</i> chromosome can change, indicating that they have been subject to several kinds of inversions. Genomes of this microorganism show large differences in gene content even if they are in the same clade. Here we also show that <i>A. haemolyticus</i> has an open pan-genome.	2020	Castro-Jaimes, Semiramis; Castro-Jaimes, S; Castro-Jaimes; Bello-López, Elena; Bello-López, E; Bello-López; Velázquez-Acosta, Consuelo; Velázquez-Acosta, C; Velázquez-Acosta; Volkow-Fernández, Patricia; Volkow-Fernández, P; Volkow-Fernández; Lozano-Zarain, Patricia; Lozano-Zarain, P; Lozano-Zarain; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Cevallos, Miguel Angel; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	Front Microbiol
32429835	Repetitive DNA profile of the amphibian mitogenome.	Repetitive DNA elements such as direct and inverted repeat sequences are present in every genome, playing numerous biological roles. In amphibians, the functions and effects of the repeat sequences have not been extensively explored. We consider that the data of mitochondrial genomes in the NCBI database are a valuable alternative to generate a better understanding of the molecular dynamic of the repeat sequences in the amphibians.	2020 May	Cabañas, Noel; Cabañas, N; Cabañas; Becerra, Arturo; Becerra, A; Becerra; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Govezensky, Tzipe; Govezensky, T; Govezensky; Espinosa-Aguirre, Jesús Javier; Espinosa-Aguirre, JJ; Espinosa-Aguirre; Camacho-Carranza, Rafael; Camacho-Carranza, R; Camacho-Carranza	BMC Bioinformatics
32385404	Expansin-like Exl1 from Pectobacterium is a virulence factor required for host infection, and induces a defence plant response involving ROS, and jasmonate, ethylene and salicylic acid signalling pathways in Arabidopsis thaliana.	Expansins are encoded by some phytopathogenic bacteria and evidence indicates that they act as virulence factors for host infection. Here we analysed the expression of exl1 by Pectobacterium brasiliense and Pectobacterium atrosepticum. In both, exl1 gene appears to be under quorum sensing control, and protein Exl1 can be observed in culture medium and during plant infection. Expression of exl1 correlates with pathogen virulence, where symptoms are reduced in a Δexl1 mutant strain of P. atrosepticum. As well as Δexl1 exhibiting less maceration of potato plants, fewer bacteria are observed at distance from the inoculation site. However, bacteria infiltrated into the plant tissue are as virulent as the wild type, suggesting that this is due to alterations in the initial invasion of the tissue. Additionally, swarming from colonies grown on MacConkey soft agar was delayed in the mutant in comparison to the wild type. We found that Exl1 acts on the plant tissue, probably by remodelling of a cell wall component or altering the barrier properties of the cell wall inducing a plant defence response, which results in the production of ROS and the induction of marker genes of the JA, ET and SA signalling pathways in Arabidopsis thaliana. Exl1 inactive mutants fail to trigger such responses. This defence response is protective against Pectobacterium brasiliense and Botrytis cinerea in more than one plant species.	2020 05	Narváez-Barragán, Delia A; Narváez-Barragán, DA; Narváez-Barragán; Tovar-Herrera, Omar E; Tovar-Herrera, OE; Tovar-Herrera; Torres, Martha; Torres, M; Torres; Rodríguez, Mabel; Rodríguez, M; Rodríguez; Humphris, Sonia; Humphris, S; Humphris; Toth, Ian K; Toth, IK; Toth; Segovia, Lorenzo; Segovia, L; Segovia; Serrano, Mario; Serrano, M; Serrano; Martínez-Anaya, Claudia; Martínez-Anaya, C; Martínez-Anaya	Sci Rep
32330481	Identification and Analysis of Natural Building Blocks for Evolution-Guided Fragment-Based Protein Design.	Natural evolution has generated an impressively diverse protein universe via duplication and recombination from a set of protein fragments that served as building blocks. The application of these concepts to the design of new proteins using subdomain-sized fragments from different folds has proven to be experimentally successful. To better understand how evolution has shaped our protein universe, we performed an all-against-all comparison of protein domains representing all naturally existing folds and identified conserved homologous protein fragments. Overall, we found more than 1000 protein fragments of various lengths among different folds through similarity network analysis. These fragments are present in very different protein environments and represent versatile building blocks for protein design. These data are available in our web server called F(old P)uzzle (fuzzle.uni-bayreuth.de), which allows to individually filter the dataset and create customized networks for folds of interest. We believe that our results serve as an invaluable resource for structural and evolutionary biologists and as raw material for the design of custom-made proteins.	2020 06	Ferruz, Noelia; Ferruz, N; Ferruz; Lobos, Francisco; Lobos, F; Lobos; Lemm, Dominik; Lemm, D; Lemm; Toledo-Patino, Saacnicteh; Toledo-Patino, S; Toledo-Patino; Farías-Rico, José Arcadio; Farías-Rico, JA; Farías-Rico; Schmidt, Steffen; Schmidt, S; Schmidt; Höcker, Birte; Höcker, B; Höcker	J Mol Biol
32225039	Role of <i>Sinorhizobium meliloti</i> and <i>Escherichia coli</i> Long-Chain Acyl-CoA Synthetase FadD in Long-Term Survival.	FadD is an acyl-coenzyme A (CoA) synthetase specific for long-chain fatty acids (LCFA). Strains mutated in fadD cannot produce acyl-CoA and thus cannot grow on exogenous LCFA as the sole carbon source. Mutants in the fadD (smc02162) of Sinorhizobium meliloti are unable to grow on oleate as the sole carbon source and present an increased surface motility and accumulation of free fatty acids at the entry of the stationary phase of growth. In this study, we found that constitutive expression of the closest FadD homologues of S. meliloti, encoded by sma0150 and smb20650, could not revert any of the mutant phenotypes. In contrast, the expression of Escherichia coli fadD could restore the same functions as S. meliloti fadD. Previously, we demonstrated that FadD is required for the degradation of endogenous fatty acids released from membrane lipids. Here, we show that absence of a functional fadD provokes a significant loss of viability in cultures of E. coli and of S. meliloti in the stationary phase, demonstrating a crucial role of fatty acid degradation in survival capacity.	2020 Mar	Pech-Canul, Ángel de la Cruz; Pech-Canul, ÁC; Pech-Canul; Rivera-Hernández, Geovanny; Rivera-Hernández, G; Rivera-Hernández; Nogales, Joaquina; Nogales, J; Nogales; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Soto, María J; Soto, MJ; Soto; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara	Microorganisms
31580950	Trade-offs between gene expression, growth and phenotypic diversity in microbial populations.	Bacterial cells have a limited number of resources that can be allocated for gene expression. The intracellular competition for these resources has an impact on the cell physiology. Bacteria have evolved mechanisms to optimize resource allocation in a variety of scenarios, showing a trade-off between the resources used to maximise growth (e.g. ribosome synthesis) and the rest of cellular functions. Limitations in gene expression also play a role in generating phenotypic diversity, which is advantageous in fluctuating environments, at the expenses of decreasing growth rates. Our current understanding of these trade-offs can be exploited for biotechnological applications benefiting from the selective manipulation of the allocation of resources.	2020 04	Kim, Juhyun; Kim, J; Kim; Darlington, Alexander; Darlington, A; Darlington; Salvador, Manuel; Salvador, M; Salvador; Utrilla, José; Utrilla, J; Utrilla; Jiménez, José I; Jiménez, JI; Jiménez	Curr Opin Biotechnol
31689478	Comparative genomics of a subset of Adherent/Invasive Escherichia coli strains isolated from individuals without inflammatory bowel disease.	There is increased evidence demonstrating the association between Crohn's Disease (CD), a type of Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD), and non-diarrheagenic Adherent/Invasive Escherichia coli (AIEC) isolates. AIEC strains are phenotypically characterized by their adhesion, invasion and intra-macrophage survival capabilities. In the present study, the genomes of five AIEC strains isolated from individuals without IBD (four from healthy donors and one from peritoneal liquid) were sequenced and compared with AIEC prototype strains (LF82 and NRG857c), and with extra-intestinal uropathogenic strain (UPEC CFT073). Non-IBD-AIEC strains showed an Average Nucleotide Identity up to 98% compared with control strains. Blast identities of the five non-IBD-AIEC strains were higher when compared to AIEC and UPEC reference strains than with another E. coli pathotypes, suggesting a relationship between them. The SNPs phylogeny grouped the five non-IBD-AIEC strains in one separated cluster, which indicates the emergence of these strains apart from the AIEC group. Additionally, four genomic islands not previously reported in AIEC strains were identified. An incomplete Type VI secretion system was found in non-IBD-AIEC strains; however, the Type II secretion system was complete. Several groups of genes reported in AIEC strains were searched in the five non-IBD-AIEC strains, and the presence of fimA, fliC, fuhD, chuA, irp2 and cvaC were confirmed. Other virulence factors were detected in non-IBD-AIEC strains, which were absent in AIEC reference strains, including EhaG, non-fimbrial adhesin 1, PapG, F17D-G, YehA/D, FeuC, IucD, CbtA, VgrG-1, Cnf1 and HlyE. Based on the differences in virulence determinants and SNPs, it is plausible to suggest that non-IBD AIEC strains belong to a different pathotype.	2020 03	Barrios-Villa, Edwin; Barrios-Villa, E; Barrios-Villa; Martínez de la Peña, Claudia Fabiola; Martínez de la Peña, CF; Martínez de la Peña; Lozano-Zaraín, Patricia; Lozano-Zaraín, P; Lozano-Zaraín; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Torres, Carmen; Torres, C; Torres; Torres, Alfredo G; Torres, AG; Torres; Rocha-Gracia, Rosa Del Carmen; Rocha-Gracia, RDC; Rocha-Gracia	Genomics
31935179	Polyamines produced by <i>Sinorhizobium meliloti</i> Rm8530 contribute to symbiotically relevant phenotypes <i>ex planta</i> and to nodulation efficiency on alfalfa.	In nitrogen-fixing rhizobia, emerging evidence shows significant roles for polyamines in growth and abiotic stress resistance. In this work we show that a polyamine-deficient ornithine decarboxylase null mutant (<i>odc2</i>) derived from <i>Sinorhizobium meliloti</i> Rm8530 had significant phenotypic differences from the wild-type, including greatly reduced production of exopolysaccharides (EPS; ostensibly both succinoglycan and galactoglucan), increased sensitivity to oxidative stress and decreased swimming motility. The introduction of the <i>odc2</i> gene borne on a plasmid into the <i>odc2</i> mutant restored wild-type phenotypes for EPS production, growth under oxidative stress and swimming. The production of calcofluor-binding EPS (succinoglycan) by the <i>odc2</i> mutant was also completely or mostly restored in the presence of exogenous spermidine (Spd), norspermidine (NSpd) or spermine (Spm). The <i>odc2</i> mutant formed about 25 % more biofilm than the wild-type, and its ability to form biofilm was significantly inhibited by exogenous Spd, NSpd or Spm. The <i>odc2</i> mutant formed a less efficient symbiosis with alfalfa, resulting in plants with significantly less biomass and height, more nodules but less nodule biomass, and 25 % less nitrogen-fixing activity. Exogenously supplied Put was not able to revert these phenotypes and caused a similar increase in plant height and dry weight in uninoculated plants and in those inoculated with the wild-type or <i>odc2</i> mutant. We discuss ways in which polyamines might affect the phenotypes of the <i>odc2</i> mutant.	2020 03	Becerra-Rivera, Victor A; Becerra-Rivera, VA; Becerra-Rivera; Arteaga, Alejandra; Arteaga, A; Arteaga; Leija, Alfonso; Leija, A; Leija; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn	Microbiology (Reading)
32176702	Reciprocal c-di-GMP signaling: Incomplete flagellum biogenesis triggers c-di-GMP signaling pathways that promote biofilm formation.	The assembly status of the V. cholerae flagellum regulates biofilm formation, suggesting that the bacterium senses a lack of movement to commit to a sessile lifestyle. Motility and biofilm formation are inversely regulated by the second messenger molecule cyclic dimeric guanosine monophosphate (c-di-GMP). Therefore, we sought to define the flagellum-associated c-di-GMP-mediated signaling pathways that regulate the transition from a motile to a sessile state. Here we report that elimination of the flagellum, via loss of the FlaA flagellin, results in a flagellum-dependent biofilm regulatory (FDBR) response, which elevates cellular c-di-GMP levels, increases biofilm gene expression, and enhances biofilm formation. The strength of the FDBR response is linked with status of the flagellar stator: it can be reversed by deletion of the T ring component MotX, and reduced by mutations altering either the Na+ binding ability of the stator or the Na+ motive force. Absence of the stator also results in reduction of mannose-sensitive hemagglutinin (MSHA) pilus levels on the cell surface, suggesting interconnectivity of signal transduction pathways involved in biofilm formation. Strains lacking flagellar rotor components similarly launched an FDBR response, however this was independent of the status of assembly of the flagellar stator. We found that the FDBR response requires at least three specific diguanylate cyclases that contribute to increased c-di-GMP levels, and propose that activation of biofilm formation during this response relies on c-di-GMP-dependent activation of positive regulators of biofilm production. Together our results dissect how flagellum assembly activates c-di-GMP signaling circuits, and how V. cholerae utilizes these signals to transition from a motile to a sessile state.	2020 03	Wu, Daniel C; Wu, DC; Wu; Zamorano-Sánchez, David; Zamorano-Sánchez, D; Zamorano-Sánchez; Pagliai, Fernando A; Pagliai, FA; Pagliai; Park, Jin Hwan; Park, JH; Park; Floyd, Kyle A; Floyd, KA; Floyd; Lee, Calvin K; Lee, CK; Lee; Kitts, Giordan; Kitts, G; Kitts; Rose, Christopher B; Rose, CB; Rose; Bilotta, Eric M; Bilotta, EM; Bilotta; Wong, Gerard C L; Wong, GCL; Wong; Yildiz, Fitnat H; Yildiz, FH; Yildiz	PLoS Genet
31949184	PulmonDB: a curated lung disease gene expression database.	Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) and Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF) have contrasting clinical and pathological characteristics and interesting whole-genome transcriptomic profiles. However, data from public repositories are difficult to reprocess and reanalyze. Here, we present PulmonDB, a web-based database (http://pulmondb.liigh.unam.mx/) and R library that facilitates exploration of gene expression profiles for these diseases by integrating transcriptomic data and curated annotation from different sources. We demonstrated the value of this resource by presenting the expression of already well-known genes of COPD and IPF across multiple experiments and the results of two differential expression analyses in which we successfully identified differences and similarities. With this first version of PulmonDB, we create a new hypothesis and compare the two diseases from a transcriptomics perspective.	2020 01	Villaseñor-Altamirano, Ana B; Villaseñor-Altamirano, AB; Villaseñor-Altamirano; Moretto, Marco; Moretto, M; Moretto; Maldonado, Mariel; Maldonado, M; Maldonado; Zayas-Del Moral, Alejandra; Zayas-Del Moral, A; Zayas-Del Moral; Munguía-Reyes, Adrián; Munguía-Reyes, A; Munguía-Reyes; Romero, Yair; Romero, Y; Romero; García-Sotelo, Jair S; García-Sotelo, JS; García-Sotelo; Aguilar, Luis A; Aguilar, LA; Aguilar; Aldana-Assad, Oscar; Aldana-Assad, O; Aldana-Assad; Engelen, Kristof; Engelen, K; Engelen; Selman, Moisés; Selman, M; Selman; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Balderas-Martínez, Yalbi I; Balderas-Martínez, YI; Balderas-Martínez; Medina-Rivera, Alejandra; Medina-Rivera, A; Medina-Rivera	Sci Rep
32112625	A novel way to synthesize pantothenate in bacteria involves β-alanine synthase present in uracil degradation pathway.	Pantothenate is an indispensable vitamin precursor of the synthesis of coenzyme A (CoA), a key metabolite required in over 100 metabolic reactions. β-Alanine (β-ala) is an indispensable component of pantothenate. Due to the metabolic relevance of this pathway, we assumed that orthologous genes for ß-alanine synthesis would be present in the genomes of bacteria, archaea, and eukaryotes. However, comparative genomic studies revealed that orthologous gene replacement and loss of synteny occur at high frequency in panD genes. We have previously reported the atypical plasmid-encoded location of the pantothenate pathway genes panC and panB (two copies) in R. etli CFN42. This study also revealed the unexpected absence of a panD gene encoding the aspartate decarboxylase enzyme (ADC), required for the synthesis of β-ala. The aim of this study was to identify the source of β-alanine in Rhizobium etli CFN42. In this study, we present a bioinformatic analysis and an experimental validation demonstrating that the source of β-ala in this R. etli comes from β-alanine synthase, the last enzyme of the uracil degradation pathway.	2020 04	López-Sámano, Mariana; López-Sámano, M; López-Sámano; Beltrán, Luis Fernando Lozano-Aguirre; Beltrán, LFL; Beltrán; Sánchez-Thomas, Rosina; Sánchez-Thomas, R; Sánchez-Thomas; Dávalos, Araceli; Dávalos, A; Dávalos; Villaseñor, Tomás; Villaseñor, T; Villaseñor; García-García, Jorge Donato; García-García, JD; García-García; García-de Los Santos, Alejandro; García-de Los Santos, A; García-de Los Santos	Microbiologyopen
32542109	Abasy Atlas v2.2: The most comprehensive and up-to-date inventory of meta-curated, historical, bacterial regulatory networks, their completeness and system-level characterization.	Some organism-specific databases about regulation in bacteria have become larger, accelerated by high-throughput methodologies, while others are no longer updated or accessible. Each database homogenize its datasets, giving rise to heterogeneity across databases. Such heterogeneity mainly encompasses different names for a gene and different network representations, generating duplicated interactions that could bias network analyses. Abasy (<b>A</b>cross-<b>ba</b>cteria <b>sy</b>stems) Atlas consolidates information from different sources into meta-curated regulatory networks in bacteria. The high-quality networks in Abasy Atlas enable cross-organisms analyses, such as benchmarking studies where gold standards are required. Nevertheless, network incompleteness still casts doubts on the conclusions of network analyses, and available sampling methods cannot reflect the curation process. To tackle this problem, the updated version of Abasy Atlas presented in this work provides historical snapshots of regulatory networks. Thus, network analyses can be performed at different completeness levels, making possible to identify potential bias and to predict future results. We leverage the recently found constraint in the complexity of regulatory networks to develop a novel model to quantify the total number of regulatory interactions as a function of the genome size. This completeness estimation is a valuable insight that may aid in the daunting task of network curation, prediction, and validation. The new version of Abasy Atlas provides 76 networks (204,282 regulatory interactions) covering 42 bacteria (64% Gram-positive and 36% Gram-negative) distributed in 9 species (<i>Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Bacillus subtilis, Escherichia coli, Corynebacterium glutamicum, Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Streptococcus pyogenes, Streptococcus pneumoniae</i>, and <i>Streptomyces coelicolor</i>), containing 8459 regulons and 4335 modules. <b>Database URL:</b> https://abasy.ccg.unam.mx/.	2020	Escorcia-Rodríguez, Juan M; Escorcia-Rodríguez, JM; Escorcia-Rodríguez; Tauch, Andreas; Tauch, A; Tauch; Freyre-González, Julio A; Freyre-González, JA; Freyre-González	Comput Struct Biotechnol J
32216867	Genetic regulation, biochemical properties and physiological importance of arginase from <i>Sinorhizobium meliloti</i>.	In bacteria, l-arginine is a precursor of various metabolites and can serve as a source of carbon and/or nitrogen. Arginine catabolism by arginase, which hydrolyzes arginine to l-ornithine and urea, is common in nature but has not been studied in symbiotic nitrogen-fixing rhizobia. The genome of the alfalfa microsymbiont <i>Sinorhizobium meliloti</i> 1021 has two genes annotated as arginases, <i>argI1</i> (<i>smc03091</i>) and <i>argI2</i> (<i>sma1711</i>). Biochemical assays with purified ArgI1 and ArgI2 (as 6His-Sumo-tagged proteins) showed that only ArgI1 had detectable arginase activity. A 1021 <i>argI1</i> null mutant lacked arginase activity and grew at a drastically reduced rate with arginine as sole nitrogen source. Wild-type growth and arginase activity were restored in the <i>argI1</i> mutant genetically complemented with a genomically integrated <i>argI1</i> gene. In the wild-type, arginase activity and <i>argI1</i> transcription were induced several fold by exogenous arginine. ArgI1 purified as a 6His-Sumo-tagged protein had its highest <i>in vitro</i> enzymatic activity at pH 7.5 with Ni<sup>2+</sup> as cofactor. The enzyme was also active with Mn<sup>2+</sup> and Co<sup>2+</sup>, both of which gave the enzyme the highest activities at a more alkaline pH. The 6His-Sumo-ArgI1 comprised three identical subunits based on the migration of the urea-dissociated protein in a native polyacrylamide gel. A Lrp-like regulator (<i>smc03092</i>) divergently transcribed from <i>argI1</i> was required for arginase induction by arginine or ornithine. This regulator was designated ArgIR. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays showed that purified ArgIR bound to the <i>argI1</i> promoter in a region preceding the predicted <i>argI1</i> transcriptional start. Our results indicate that ArgI1 is the sole arginase in <i>S. meliloti</i>, that it contributes substantially to arginine catabolism <i>in vivo</i> and that <i>argI1</i> induction by arginine is dependent on ArgIR.	2020 05	Ide, Alejandra Arteaga; Ide, AA; Ide; Hernández, Victor M; Hernández, VM; Hernández; Medina-Aparicio, Liliana; Medina-Aparicio, L; Medina-Aparicio; Carcamo-Noriega, Edson; Carcamo-Noriega, E; Carcamo-Noriega; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Hernández-Lucas, Ismael; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn	Microbiology (Reading)
31786251	In silico drug repurposing for the identification of potential candidate molecules against arboviruses infection.	Arboviral diseases caused by dengue (DENV), Zika (ZIKV) and chikungunya (CHIKV) viruses represent a major public health problem worldwide, especially in tropical areas where millions of infections occur every year. The aim of this research was to identify candidate molecules for the treatment of these diseases among the drugs currently available in the market, through in silico screening and subsequent in vitro evaluation with cell culture models of DENV and ZIKV infections. Numerous pharmaceutical compounds from antibiotics to chemotherapeutic agents presented high in silico binding affinity for the viral proteins, including ergotamine, antrafenine, natamycin, pranlukast, nilotinib, itraconazole, conivaptan and novobiocin. These five last compounds were tested in vitro, being pranlukast the one that exhibited the best antiviral activity. Further in vitro assays for this compound showed a significant inhibitory effect on DENV and ZIKV infection of human monocytic cells and human hepatocytes (Huh-7 cells) with potential abrogation of virus entry. Finally, intrinsic fluorescence analyses suggest that pranlukast may have some level of interaction with three viral proteins of DENV: envelope, capsid, and NS1. Due to its promising results, suitable accessibility in the market and reduced restrictions compared to other pharmaceuticals; the anti-asthmatic pranlukast is proposed as a drug candidate against DENV, ZIKV, and CHIKV, supporting further in vitro and in vivo assessment of the potential of this and other lead compounds that exhibited good affinity scores in silico as therapeutic agents or scaffolds for the development of new drugs against arboviral diseases.	2020 01	Montes-Grajales, Diana; Montes-Grajales, D; Montes-Grajales; Puerta-Guardo, Henry; Puerta-Guardo, H; Puerta-Guardo; Espinosa, Diego A; Espinosa, DA; Espinosa; Harris, Eva; Harris, E; Harris; Caicedo-Torres, William; Caicedo-Torres, W; Caicedo-Torres; Olivero-Verbel, Jesus; Olivero-Verbel, J; Olivero-Verbel; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Antiviral Res
32983629	Interdependency of regulatory effects of iron and riboflavin in the foodborne pathogen <i>Shigella flexneri</i> determined by integral transcriptomics.	<i>Shigella flexneri</i> is the causative agent of dysentery. For pathogens, iron is a critical micronutrient as its bioavailability is usually low in bacterial niches. This metal is involved in critical physiological processes mainly as a component of important metabolic molecules involved in redox reactions. Usually bacteria respond to fluctuations in iron availability to regulate iron acquisition and other iron-related functions. Recently the close metabolic feedback between iron and riboflavin, another pivotal biological redox agent, began to draw attention in bacteria. This is a widespread biological phenomenon, partly characterized by the coordination of regulatory responses to iron and riboflavin, probably owed to the involvement of these cofactors in common processes. Nonetheless, no systematic analyses to determine the extent of this regulatory effect have been performed in any species. Here, the transcriptomics responses to iron, riboflavin, iron in the presence of riboflavin and riboflavin in the presence of iron were assessed and compared in <i>S. flexneri</i>. The riboflavin regulon had a 43% overlap with the iron regulon. Notably, the presence of riboflavin highly increased the number of iron-responsive genes. Reciprocally, iron drastically changed the pool of riboflavin-responsive genes. Gene ontology (GO) functional terms enrichment analysis showed that biological processes were distinctively enriched for each subgroup of responsive genes. Among the biological processes regulated by iron and riboflavin were iron uptake, amino acids metabolism and electron transfer for ATP synthesis. Thus, iron and riboflavin highly affect the transcriptomics responses induced by each other in <i>S. flexneri</i>. GO terms analysis suggests that iron and riboflavin coordinately regulate specific physiological functions involving redox metabolism.	2020	Lozano Aguirre, Luis Fernando; Lozano Aguirre, LF; Lozano Aguirre; Salazar, Juan Carlos; Salazar, JC; Salazar; Vásquez, José Ignacio; Vásquez, JI; Vásquez; García-Angulo, Víctor Antonio; García-Angulo, VA; García-Angulo	PeerJ
33306798	Knowledge extraction for assisted curation of summaries of bacterial transcription factor properties.	Transcription factors (TFs) play a main role in transcriptional regulation of bacteria, as they regulate transcription of the genetic information encoded in DNA. Thus, the curation of the properties of these regulatory proteins is essential for a better understanding of transcriptional regulation. However, traditional manual curation of article collections to compile descriptions of TF properties takes significant time and effort due to the overwhelming amount of biomedical literature, which increases every day. The development of automatic approaches for knowledge extraction to assist curation is therefore critical. Here, we show an effective approach for knowledge extraction to assist curation of summaries describing bacterial TF properties based on an automatic text summarization strategy. We were able to recover automatically a median 77% of the knowledge contained in manual summaries describing properties of 177 TFs of Escherichia coli K-12 by processing 5961 scientific articles. For 71% of the TFs, our approach extracted new knowledge that can be used to expand manual descriptions. Furthermore, as we trained our predictive model with manual summaries of E. coli, we also generated summaries for 185 TFs of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium from 3498 articles. According to the manual curation of 10 of these Salmonella typhimurium summaries, 96% of their sentences contained relevant knowledge. Our results demonstrate the feasibility to assist manual curation to expand manual summaries with new knowledge automatically extracted and to create new summaries of bacteria for which these curation efforts do not exist. Database URL: The automatic summaries of the TFs of E. coli and Salmonella and the automatic summarizer are available in GitHub (https://github.com/laigen-unam/tf-properties-summarizer.git).	2020 12	Méndez-Cruz, Carlos-Francisco; Méndez-Cruz, CF; Méndez-Cruz; Blanchet, Antonio; Blanchet, A; Blanchet; Godínez, Alan; Godínez, A; Godínez; Arroyo-Fernández, Ignacio; Arroyo-Fernández, I; Arroyo-Fernández; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Martínez-Luna, Sara Berenice; Martínez-Luna, SB; Martínez-Luna; González-Colín, Cristian; González-Colín, C; González-Colín; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Database (Oxford)
32595407	Population genetics and diversity structure of an invasive earthworm in tropical and temperate pastures from Veracruz, Mexico.	<i>Pontoscolex corethrurus</i> (Müller, 1857) is an invasive tropical earthworm, globally distributed. It reproduces through parthenogenesis, which theoretically results in low genetic diversity. The analysis of the population structure of <i>P. corethrurus</i> using molecular markers may significantly contribute to understanding the ecology and reproductive system of this earthworm species. This work assessed the genetic diversity and population structure of <i>P. corethrurus</i> with 34 polymorphic inter simple sequence repeat markers, covering four populations in tropical and temperate pastures from Veracruz State. Nuclear markers distinguished two genetic clusters, probably corresponding to two distinct genetic lineages. The number of clones detected in the AC population was lower than expected for a parthenogenetic species. Also, the apparent lack of differences in population structures related to the geographic region among the populations studied may indicate that human-mediated transference is prevalent in these areas. Still, most individuals apparently belong to lineage A, and only a few individuals seem to belong to the lineage B. Thus, the admixture signatures found among the four populations of <i>P. corethrurus</i> may have facilitated a successful invasion by directly increasing fitness. In summary, addressing the genetic variation of <i>P. corethrurus</i> with ISSR markers was a suitable approach, as it evidenced the genetic diversity and relationships in the populations evaluated.	2020	Ortíz-Gamino, Diana; Ortíz-Gamino, D; Ortíz-Gamino; Gregorio, Josefat; Gregorio, J; Gregorio; Cunha, Luis; Cunha, L; Cunha; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Fragoso, Carlos; Fragoso, C; Fragoso; Ortíz-Ceballos, Ángel I; Ortíz-Ceballos, ÁI; Ortíz-Ceballos	Zookeys
31923208	Post-transcriptional regulation of Rad51c by miR-222 contributes cellular transformation.	DNA repair inhibition has been described as an essential event leading to the initiation of carcinogenesis. In a previous study, we observed that the exposure to metal mixture induces changes in the miR-nome of the cells that was correlated with the sub-expression of mRNA involved in processes and diseases associated with metal exposure. From this analysis, one of the miRNAs that shows changes in its expression is miR-222, which is overexpressed in various cancers associated with exposure to metals. In silico studies showed that a possible target for the microRNA-222 could be Rad 51c, a gene involved in the double-stranded DNA repair. We could appreciate that up-regulation of miR-222 reduces the expression both gene and as a protein expression of Rad51c by RT-PCR and immunoblot, respectively. A luciferase assay was performed to validate Rad51c as miR-222 target. Neutral comet assay was performed in order to evaluate DNA double-strand breaks under experimental conditions. Here, we demonstrate that miR-222 up-regulation, directly regulates Rad51c expression negatively, and impairs homologous recombination of double-strand break DNA repair during the initiation stage of cell transformation. This inhibition triggers morphological transformation in a two-stage Balb/c 3T3 cell assay, suggesting that this small RNA acts as an initiator of the carcinogenesis process.	2020	Rojas, Emilio; Rojas, E; Rojas; Martinez-Pacheco, Monica; Martinez-Pacheco, M; Martinez-Pacheco; Rodriguez-Sastre, Maria Alexandra; Rodriguez-Sastre, MA; Rodriguez-Sastre; Ramos-Espinosa, Paulina; Ramos-Espinosa, P; Ramos-Espinosa; Valverde, Mahara; Valverde, M; Valverde	PLoS One
31807886	Production of distinct labdane-type diterpenoids using a novel cryptic labdane-like cluster from Streptomyces thermocarboxydus K155.	Bioinformatic mining of the Streptomyces thermocarboxydus K155 genome predicted the presence of four synthases for the production of geosmin, hopene, albaflavenone, and a type B-type A diterpenoid system like that described for labdane-related diterpenoids (LRD). The lrd cluster was comprised by an operon of four genes (lrdABDC). This cluster seemed to be silent in the wild-type strain, as neither labdane nor terpene-like compounds were detected by UPLC-TOF-MS and GC-MS analyses in both culture supernatants and mycelial extracts. Heterologous expression of the lrdABDC cluster in a defective cyslabdan producer (Streptomyces cyslabdanicus K04-0144Δcld) generated 8,17-epoxy-7-hydroxy labda-12,14-diene and cyslabdan. The same cluster expressed in the strains Streptomyces coelicolor M1152, Streptomyces peucetius var. caesius, and Streptomyces avermitilis SUKA22 produced the general intermediary labda-8(17), 12(E),14-triene [(E)-biformene]. Besides (E)-biformene, S. coelicolor M1152 and S. avermitilis SUKA22 produced two and three different labdane-type diterpenoids, underlying the relevance of the genetic background of the Streptomyces host in product formation.	2020 Jan	Guzmán-Trampe, Silvia M; Guzmán-Trampe, SM; Guzmán-Trampe; Ikeda, Haruo; Ikeda, H; Ikeda; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Macías-Rubalcava, Martha L; Macías-Rubalcava, ML; Macías-Rubalcava; Esquivel, Baldomero; Esquivel, B; Esquivel; Centeno-Leija, Sara; Centeno-Leija, S; Centeno-Leija; Tapia-Cabrera, Silvana M; Tapia-Cabrera, SM; Tapia-Cabrera; Mora-Herrera, Silvia I; Mora-Herrera, SI; Mora-Herrera; Ruiz-Villafán, Beatriz; Ruiz-Villafán, B; Ruiz-Villafán; Rodríguez-Sanoja, Romina; Rodríguez-Sanoja, R; Rodríguez-Sanoja; Sanchez, Sergio; Sanchez, S; Sanchez	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol
32320380	Rejection of the name <i>Borreliella</i> and all proposed species comb. nov. placed therein.	Rejection (<i>nomen rejiciendum</i>) of the name <i>Borreliella</i> and all new combinations therein is being requested on grounds of risk to human health and patient safety (Principle 1, subprinciple 2 and Rule 56a) and violation to aim for stability of names, to avoid useless creation of names (Principle 1, subprinciple 1 and 3) and that names should not be changed without sufficient reason (Principle 9 of the International Code of Nomenclature of Prokaryotes).	2020 May	Margos, Gabriele; Margos, G; Margos; Castillo-Ramirez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramirez, S; Castillo-Ramirez; Cutler, Sally; Cutler, S; Cutler; Dessau, Ram B; Dessau, RB; Dessau; Eikeland, Randi; Eikeland, R; Eikeland; Estrada-Peña, Agustin; Estrada-Peña, A; Estrada-Peña; Gofton, Alexander; Gofton, A; Gofton; Graña-Miraglia, Lucía; Graña-Miraglia, L; Graña-Miraglia; Hunfeld, Klaus-Peter; Hunfeld, KP; Hunfeld; Krause, Andreas; Krause, A; Krause; Lienhard, Reto; Lienhard, R; Lienhard; Lindgren, Per-Eric; Lindgren, PE; Lindgren; Oskam, Charlotte; Oskam, C; Oskam; Rudolf, Ivo; Rudolf, I; Rudolf; Schwartz, Ira; Schwartz, I; Schwartz; Sing, Andreas; Sing, A; Sing; Stevenson, Brian; Stevenson, B; Stevenson; Wormser, Gary P; Wormser, GP; Wormser; Fingerle, Volker; Fingerle, V; Fingerle	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
32845909	Role of plant compounds in the modulation of the conjugative transfer of pRet42a.	One of the most studied mechanisms involved in bacterial evolution and diversification is conjugative transfer (CT) of plasmids. Plasmids able to transfer by CT often encode beneficial traits for bacterial survival under specific environmental conditions. Rhizobium etli CFN42 is a Gram-negative bacterium of agricultural relevance due to its symbiotic association with Phaseolus vulgaris through the formation of Nitrogen-fixing nodules. The genome of R. etli CFN42 consists of one chromosome and six large plasmids. Among these, pRet42a has been identified as a conjugative plasmid. The expression of the transfer genes is regulated by a quorum sensing (QS) system that includes a traI gene, which encodes an acyl-homoserine lactone (AHL) synthase and two transcriptional regulators (TraR and CinR). Recently, we have shown that pRet42a can perform CT on the root surface and inside nodules. The aim of this work was to determine the role of plant-related compounds in the CT of pRet42a. We found that bean root exudates or root and nodule extracts induce the CT of pRet42a in the plant rhizosphere. One possibility is that these compounds are used as nutrients, allowing the bacteria to increase their growth rate and reach the population density leading to the activation of the QS system in a shorter time. We tested if P. vulgaris compounds could substitute the bacterial AHL synthesized by TraI, to activate the conjugation machinery. The results showed that the transfer of pRet42a in the presence of the plant is dependent on the bacterial QS system, which cannot be substituted by plant compounds. Additionally, individual compounds of the plant exudates were evaluated; among these, some increased and others decreased the CT. With these results, we suggest that the plant could participate at different levels to modulate the CT, and that some compounds could be activating genes in the conjugation machinery.	2020	Bañuelos-Vazquez, Luis Alfredo; Bañuelos-Vazquez, LA; Bañuelos-Vazquez; Castellani, Lucas G; Castellani, LG; Castellani; Luchetti, Abril; Luchetti, A; Luchetti; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Torres Tejerizo, Gonzalo A; Torres Tejerizo, GA; Torres Tejerizo; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom	PLoS One
31796995	The Gut Microbiota Composition of the Moth Brithys crini Reflects Insect Metamorphosis.	Lepidoptera is a highly diverse insect order with major importance in agriculture as many species are considered pests. The role of the gut microbiota in insect physiology is still poorly understood, despite the research undertaken in recent years. Furthermore, Lepidoptera are holometabolous insects and few studies have addressed the influence of the changes taking place on the gut microbiome composition and diversity during metamorphosis, especially in monophagous species. The V3-V4 region of the 16S rRNA gene was sequenced to investigate the microbiota composition and diversity of the monophagous moth Brithys crini during three different life stages: egg, larvae (midgut and hindgut), and adult (gut). Our results showed that the microbiota composition of B. crini was stage specific, indicating that the developmental stage is a main factor affecting the gut microbiome in composition and potential functions. Moreover, the diversity of the gut microbiome reflected the developmental process, since a drop in diversity occurred between the larval and the adult phase, when the intestine is completely renewed. In spite of the changes in the gut microbiota during metamorphosis, 29 genera were conserved throughout the three developmental stages, mainly belonging to the Proteobacteria phylum, which define the core microbiome of B. crini. These genera seem to contribute to host physiology by participating in food digestion, nutrition, and detoxification mechanisms.	2020 May	González-Serrano, Francisco; González-Serrano, F; González-Serrano; Pérez-Cobas, Ana Elena; Pérez-Cobas, AE; Pérez-Cobas; Rosas, Tania; Rosas, T; Rosas; Baixeras, Joaquín; Baixeras, J; Baixeras; Latorre, Amparo; Latorre, A; Latorre; Moya, Andrés; Moya, A; Moya	Microb Ecol
30525300	Ethical issues in susceptibility genetic testing for late-onset neurodegenerative diseases.	Genome-wide association studies have revolutionized our understanding of the genetic architecture of complex traits and diseases over the last decade. This knowledge is enabling clinicians, researchers, and direct-to-consumer genetics companies to conduct disease susceptibility testing based on powerful methods such as polygenic risk scoring. However, these technologies raise a set of complex ethical, legal, social, and policy considerations. Here we review and discuss a series of ethical dilemmas associated with susceptibility genetic testing for the two most common late-onset neurodegenerative diseases, Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease, including testing in asymptomatic individuals. Among others, these include informed consent, disclosure of results and unexpected findings, mandatory screening, privacy and confidentiality, and stigma and genetic discrimination. Importantly, appropriate counseling is a deciding factor for the ethical soundness of genetic testing, which poses a challenge for the regulation of these tests and the training of healthcare professionals. As genetic knowledge about these diseases continues growing and genetic testing becomes more widespread, it is increasingly important to raise awareness among researchers, medical practitioners, genetic counselors, and decision makers about the ethical, legal, and social issues associated with genetic testing for polygenic diseases.	2019 12	Manrique de Lara, Amaranta; Manrique de Lara, A; Manrique de Lara; Soto-Gómez, Liliana; Soto-Gómez, L; Soto-Gómez; Núñez-Acosta, Elisa; Núñez-Acosta, E; Núñez-Acosta; Saruwatari-Zavala, Garbiñe; Saruwatari-Zavala, G; Saruwatari-Zavala; Rentería, Miguel E; Rentería, ME; Rentería	Am J Med Genet B Neuropsychiatr Genet
31401107	Microenvironment-regulated lncRNA-HAL is able to promote stemness in breast cancer cells.	Multicellular Tumor Spheroids culture (MCTS) is an in vitro model mimicking the characteristics of the tumor microenvironment, such as hypoxia and acidosis, resulting in the presence of both proliferating and quiescent cell populations. lncRNA's is a novel group of regulatory molecules that participates in the acquisition of tumorigenic phenotypes. In the present work we evaluated the oncogenic association of an uncharacterized lncRNA (lncRNA-HAL) in the tumorigenic phenotype induced by the MCTS microenvironment. We measured lncRNA-HAL expression level in MCF-7-MCTS populations and under different hypoxic conditions by RT-qPCR. Afterwards, we silenced lncRNA-HAL expression by shRNAs and evaluated its effect in MCF-7 transcriptome (by RNAseq) and validated the modified cellular processes by proliferation, migration, and stem cells assays. Finally, we analyzed which proteins interacts with lncRNA-HAL by ChIRP assay, to propose a possible molecular mechanism for this lncRNA. We found that lncRNA-HAL is overexpressed in the internal quiescent populations (p27 positive populations) of MCF-7-MCTS, mainly in the quiescent stem cell population, being hypoxia one of the microenvironmental cues responsible of its overexpression. Transcriptome analysis of lncRNA-HAL knockdown MCF7 cells revealed that lncRNA-HAL effect is associated with proliferation, migration and cell survival mechanisms; moreover, lncRNA-HAL silencing increased cell proliferation and impaired cancer stem cell proportion and function, resulting in decreased tumor grafting in vivo. In addition, we found that this lncRNA was overexpressed in triple-negative breast cancer patients. Analysis by ChIRP assay showed that this nuclear lncRNA binds to histones and hnRNPs suggesting a participation at the chromatin level and transcriptional regulation. The results obtained in the present work suggest that the function of lncRNA-HAL is associated with quiescent stem cell populations, which in turn is relevant due to its implications in cancer cell survival and resistance against treatment in vivo. Altogether, our data highlights a new lncRNA whose expression is regulated by the tumor microenvironment and associated to stemness in breast cancer.	2019 12	García-Venzor, Alfredo; García-Venzor, A; García-Venzor; Mandujano-Tinoco, Edna Ayerim; Mandujano-Tinoco, EA; Mandujano-Tinoco; Lizarraga, Floria; Lizarraga, F; Lizarraga; Zampedri, Cecilia; Zampedri, C; Zampedri; Krötzsch, Edgar; Krötzsch, E; Krötzsch; Salgado, Rosa María; Salgado, RM; Salgado; Dávila-Borja, Víctor Manuel; Dávila-Borja, VM; Dávila-Borja; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Melendez-Zajgla, Jorge; Melendez-Zajgla, J; Melendez-Zajgla; Maldonado, Vilma; Maldonado, V; Maldonado	Biochim Biophys Acta Mol Cell Res
31768302	Genomic diversity of prevalent <i>Staphylococcus epidermidis</i> multidrug-resistant strains isolated from a Children's Hospital in México City in an eight-years survey.	<i>Staphylococcus epidermidis</i> is a human commensal and pathogen worldwide distributed. In this work, we surveyed for multi-resistant <i>S. epidermidis</i> strains in eight years at a children's health-care unit in México City. Multidrug-resistant <i>S. epidermidis</i> were present in all years of the study, including resistance to methicillin, beta-lactams, fluoroquinolones, and macrolides. To understand the genetic basis of antibiotic resistance and its association with virulence and gene exchange, we sequenced the genomes of 17 <i>S. epidermidis</i> isolates. Whole-genome nucleotide identities between all the pairs of S. epidermidis strains were about 97% to 99%. We inferred a clonal structure and eight Multilocus Sequence Types (MLSTs) in the <i>S. epidermidis</i> sequenced collection. The profile of virulence includes genes involved in biofilm formation and phenol-soluble modulins (PSMs). Half of the <i>S. epidermidis</i> analyzed lacked the ica operon for biofilm formation. Likely, they are commensal <i>S. epidermidis</i> strains but multi-antibiotic resistant. Uneven distribution of insertion sequences, phages, and CRISPR-Cas immunity phage systems suggest frequent horizontal gene transfer. Rates of recombination between <i>S. epidermidis</i> strains were more prevalent than the mutation rate and affected the whole genome. Therefore, the multidrug resistance, independently of the pathogenic traits, might explain the persistence of specific highly adapted <i>S. epidermidis</i> clonal lineages in nosocomial settings.	2019	Cabrera-Contreras, Roberto; Cabrera-Contreras, R; Cabrera-Contreras; Santamaría, Rosa I; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; Meléndez-Herrada, Enrique; Meléndez-Herrada, E; Meléndez-Herrada; Morelos-Ramírez, Rubén; Morelos-Ramírez, R; Morelos-Ramírez; Barbosa-Amezcua, Martín; Barbosa-Amezcua, M; Barbosa-Amezcua; González-Covarrubias, Vanessa; González-Covarrubias, V; González-Covarrubias; Silva-Herzog, Eugenia; Silva-Herzog, E; Silva-Herzog; Soberón, Xavier; Soberón, X; Soberón; González, Víctor; González, V; González	PeerJ
31605487	Deciphering Ancestral Sex Chromosome Turnovers Based on Analysis of Male Mutation Bias.	The age of sex chromosomes is commonly obtained by comparing the substitution rates of XY gametologs. Coupled with phylogenetic reconstructions, one can refine the origin of a sex chromosome system relative to specific speciation events. However, these approaches are insufficient to determine the presence and duration of ancestral sex chromosome systems that were lost in some species. In this study, we worked with genomic and transcriptomic data from mammals and squamates and analyzed the effect of male mutation bias on X-linked sequences in these groups. We searched for signatures indicating whether monotremes shared the same sex chromosomes with placental mammals or whether pleurodonts and acrodonts had a common ancestral sex chromosome system. Our analyses indicate that platypus did not share the XY chromosomes with placental mammals, in agreement with previous work. In contrast, analyses of agamids showed that this lineage maintained the pleurodont XY chromosomes for several million years. We performed multiple simulations using different strengths of male mutation bias to confirm the results. Overall, our work shows that variations in substitution rates due to male mutation bias could be applied to uncover signatures of ancestral sex chromosome systems.	2019 11	Acosta, Armando; Acosta, A; Acosta; Martínez-Pacheco, Mónica L; Martínez-Pacheco, ML; Martínez-Pacheco; Díaz-Barba, Karina; Díaz-Barba, K; Díaz-Barba; Porras, Niccole; Porras, N; Porras; Gutiérrez-Mariscal, Mariana; Gutiérrez-Mariscal, M; Gutiérrez-Mariscal; Cortez, Diego; Cortez, D; Cortez	Genome Biol Evol
31689451	Plasmid pSfr64a and the symbiotic plasmid pSfr64b of Sinorhizobium fredii GR64 control each other's conjugative transfer through quorum-sensing elements.	Rhizobia are nitrogen-fixing symbionts of plants. Their genomes frequently contain large plasmids, some of which are able to perform conjugative transfer. Plasmid pSfr64a from Sinorhizobium fredii GR64 is a conjugative plasmid, whose transfer is regulated by quorum sensing genes encoded by itself (traR<sub>64a</sub>, traI<sub>64a</sub>), in the symbiotic plasmid pSfr64b (traR<sub>64b</sub>, traI<sub>64b</sub>), and in the chromosome (ngrI). Also, transfer of pSfr64b requires quorum sensing elements encoded in this plasmid (traR<sub>64b</sub>, traI<sub>64b</sub>), in pSfr64a (traR<sub>64a</sub>), and in the chromosome (ngrI). These results demonstrate that pSfr64a and the symbiotic plasmid depend on each other for conjugative transfer. Plasmid pSfr64a from S. fredii GR64 is unable to transfer from the genomic background of Rhizobium etli CFN42. Our results show that the relaxase of pRet42a is able to process the oriT of pSfr64a, and viceversa, underlining their functional similarity and suggesting that in addition to the external signals, the "cytoplasmic environment" may pose a barrier to plasmid dissemination, even if the plasmids are functional in other aspects.	2019 11	Cervantes, Laura; Cervantes, L; Cervantes; Miranda-Sánchez, Fabiola; Miranda-Sánchez, F; Miranda-Sánchez; Torres Tejerizo, Gonzalo; Torres Tejerizo, G; Torres Tejerizo; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom	Plasmid
31172251	Qualitative changes in proteins contained in outer membrane vesicles produced by Rhizobium etli grown in the presence of the nod gene inducer naringenin.	In this work, we compared the proteomic profiles of outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) isolated from Rhizobium etli CE3 grown in minimal medium (MM) with and without exogenous naringenin. One-hundred and seven proteins were present only in OMVs from naringenin-containing cultures (N-OMVs), 57 proteins were unique to OMVs from control cultures lacking naringenin (C-OMVs) and 303 proteins were present in OMVs from both culture conditions (S-OMVs). Although we found no absolute predominance of specific types of proteins in the N-, C- or S-OMV classes, there were categories of proteins that were significantly less or more common in the different OMV categories. Proteins for energy production, translation and membrane and cell wall biogenesis were overrepresented in C-OMVs relative to N-OMVs. Proteins for carbohydrate metabolism and transport and those classified as either general function prediction only, function unknown, or without functional prediction were more common in N-OMVs than C-OMVs. This indicates that naringenin increased the proportion of these proteins in the OMVs, although NodD binding sites were only slightly more common in the promoters of genes for proteins found in the N-OMVs. In addition, OMVs from naringenin-containing cultures contained nodulation factor.	2019 Nov	Taboada, Hermenegildo; Taboada, H; Taboada; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Meneses, Niurka; Meneses, N; Meneses; Vargas-Lagunas, Carmen; Vargas-Lagunas, C; Vargas-Lagunas; Buchs, Natasha; Buchs, N; Buchs; Andrade-Domínguez, Andrés; Andrade-Domínguez, A; Andrade-Domínguez; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación	Arch Microbiol
31626639	Population analysis of D6-like plasmid prophage variants associated with specific IncC plasmid types in the emerging Salmonella Typhimurium ST213 genotype.	The Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium sequence type 213 (ST213) emerged as a predominant genotype in Mexico. It is characterized by harboring multidrug resistance (MDR) IncC plasmids (previously IncA/C) and the lack of the Salmonella virulence plasmid (pSTV). Here we show that the D6-like plasmid prophage is present in most of the ST213 strains. We used the reported nucleotide sequence of YU39 plasmid (pYU39_89) to design a PCR typing scheme for the D6-like plasmid prophages, and determined the complete nucleotide sequences for the D6-like prophages of three additional ST213 strains (YU07-18, SL26 and SO21). Two prophage variants were described: i) a complete prophage, containing homologous sequences for most of the genetic modules described in P1 and D6 phages, which most likely allow for the lytic and lysogenic lifestyles; and ii) an incomplete prophage, lacking a 15 kb region containing morphogenesis genes, suggesting that it is defective. The tail fiber gene inversion region was the most divergent one between D6 and pYU39_89 genomes, suggesting the production of a distinct set of tail fibers, which could be involved in host range preferences. A glutaminyl-tRNA synthetase gene (glnS), which could be involved in providing host cell increased fitness or plasmid maintenance functions, was found in all D6-like genomes. Population level analysis revealed a biogeographic pattern of distribution of these plasmid-phages and specific associations with variants of MDR IncC plasmids. Statistically significant associations were found between the two prophage variants (p75 or p89), the type of IncC plasmids (I or II) and geographic isolation regions (Sonora, San Luis Potosí, Michoacán and Yucatán). This work integrates results from molecular typing, genomics and epidemiology to provide a broad overview for the evolution of an emergent Salmonella genotype.	2019	Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva; Calva, Edmundo; Calva, E; Calva; Fernández-Mora, Marcos; Fernández-Mora, M; Fernández-Mora; Puente, José L; Puente, JL; Puente; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa	PLoS One
31279965	Current phylogeny of Rhodospirillaceae: A multi-approach study.	Rhodospirillaceae represents a major family of the class alphaproteobacteria that includes an increasing number of functionally diverse taxa. The aim of this work is to evaluate the present phylogenetic diversity of the Rhodospirillaceae, which includes several metagenome-assembled genomes of uncultivated bacteria, as well as cultivated bacteria that were previously classified in different families. Various methodological approaches have been followed to discern the phylogenetic diversity of the taxa associated with the Rhodospirillaceae, which are grouped in three major sub-divisions and several other taxonomic entities that are currently confined to the genus rank. These genera include Tistrella, Elstera, Dongia and Ferrovibrio among cultivated organisms and alphaproteobacteria bacterium 41-28 among uncultivated bacteria. Overall, this study adds at least 11 genera and over 40 species to the current set of taxa belonging to the Rhodospirillaceae, a taxonomic term that clearly requires amendment. We propose to re-classify all taxa associated with the Rhodospirillaceae family under the new order, Diaforabacterales ord. nov. (from the Greek word for diversity, διάφορα). This study also uncovers the likely root of Rhodospirillaceae among recently reported metagenome-assembled genomes of uncultivated marine and groundwater bacteria.	2019 10	Degli Esposti, Mauro; Degli Esposti, M; Degli Esposti; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Mol Phylogenet Evol
31506045	Diffusion-driven enhancement of the antibiotic resistance selection window.	The current crisis of antimicrobial resistance in clinically relevant pathogens has highlighted our limited understanding of the ecological and evolutionary forces that drive drug resistance adaptation. For instance, although human tissues are highly heterogeneous, most of our mechanistic understanding about antibiotic resistance evolution is based on constant and well-mixed environmental conditions. A consequence of considering spatial heterogeneity is that, even if antibiotics are prescribed at high dosages, the penetration of drug molecules through tissues inevitably produces antibiotic gradients, exposing bacterial populations to a range of selective pressures and generating a dynamic fitness landscape that changes in space and time. In this paper, we will use a combination of mathematical modelling and computer simulations to study the population dynamics of susceptible and resistant strains competing for resources in a network of micro-environments with varying degrees of connectivity. Our main result is that highly connected environments increase diffusion of drug molecules, enabling resistant phenotypes to colonize a larger number of spatial locations. We validated this theoretical result by culturing fluorescently labelled <i>Escherichia coli</i> in 3D-printed devices that allow us to control the rate of diffusion of antibiotics between neighbouring compartments and quantify the spatio-temporal distribution of resistant and susceptible bacterial cells.	2019 09	Fuentes-Hernández, Ayari; Fuentes-Hernández, A; Fuentes-Hernández; Hernández-Koutoucheva, Anastasia; Hernández-Koutoucheva, A; Hernández-Koutoucheva; Muñoz, Alán F; Muñoz, AF; Muñoz; Domínguez Palestino, Raúl; Domínguez Palestino, R; Domínguez Palestino; Peña-Miller, Rafael; Peña-Miller, R; Peña-Miller	J R Soc Interface
31545121	High Phenotypic and Genotypic Diversity of <i>Enterococcus faecium</i> from Clinical and Commensal Isolates in Third Level Hospital.	<b><i>Background:</i></b> The use of antimicrobials and myeloablative chemotherapy regimens has promoted multiresistant microorganisms to emerge as nosocomial pathogens, such as vancomycin-resistant <i>Enterococcus faecium</i> (VREfm). We described a polyclonal outbreak of bloodstream infection caused by Efm in a hemato-oncological ward in Mexico. Our aim was to describe the clonal complex (CC) of the Efm strains isolated in the outbreak in comparison with commensal and environmental isolates. <b><i>Methodology:</i></b> Sixty Efm clinical, environmental, and commensal strains were included. We constructed a cladogram and a phylogenetic tree using Vitek and Multilocus sequence typing data, respectively. <b><i>Results:</i></b> We reported 20 new sequence types (ST), among which 17/43 clinical isolates belonged to CC17. The predominant ST in the clinical strains were ST757, ST1304, ST412, and ST770. Neither environmental nor commensal isolates belonged to CC17. The phylogeny of our collection shows that the majority of the clinical isolates were different from the environmental and commensal isolates, and only a small group of clinical isolates was closely related with environmental and commensal isolates. The cladogram revealed a similar segregation to that of the phylogeny. <b><i>Conclusions:</i></b> We found a high diversity among clinical, environmental, and commensal strains in a group of samples in a single hospital. Highest diversity was found between commensal and environmental isolates.	2020 Mar	Mayoral-Terán, Claudia; Mayoral-Terán, C; Mayoral-Terán; Flores-Moreno, Karen; Flores-Moreno, K; Flores-Moreno; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Volkow-Fernández, Patricia; Volkow-Fernández, P; Volkow-Fernández; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Graña-Miraglia, Lucia; Graña-Miraglia, L; Graña-Miraglia; López-Vidal, Yolanda; López-Vidal, Y; López-Vidal	Microb Drug Resist
31557287	Corytophanids Replaced the Pleurodont XY System with a New Pair of XY Chromosomes.	Almost all lizard families in the pleurodont clade share the same XY system. This system was meticulously studied in Anolis carolinensis, where it shows a highly degenerated Y chromosome and a male-specific X chromosome dosage compensation mechanism. Corytophanids (casque-headed lizards) have been proposed as the only family in the pleurodont clade to lack the XY system. In this study, we worked with extensive genomic and transcriptomic data from Basiliscus vittatus, a member of the Corytophanidae family that inhabits the tropical rainforests of Mexico. We confirmed that B. vittatus underwent a sex chromosome system turnover, which consisted in the loss of the pleurodont XY system and the gain of a new pair of XY chromosomes that are orthologous to chicken chromosome 17. We estimated the origin of the sex chromosome system to have occurred ∼63 Ma in the ancestor of corytophanids. Moreover, we identified 12 XY gametologues with particular attributes, such as functions related to the membrane and intracellular trafficking, very low expression levels, blood specificity, and incomplete dosage compensation in males.	2019 09	Acosta, Armando; Acosta, A; Acosta; Suárez-Varón, Gabriel; Suárez-Varón, G; Suárez-Varón; Rodríguez-Miranda, Luis A; Rodríguez-Miranda, LA; Rodríguez-Miranda; Lira-Noriega, Andrés; Lira-Noriega, A; Lira-Noriega; Aguilar-Gómez, Diana; Aguilar-Gómez, D; Aguilar-Gómez; Gutiérrez-Mariscal, Mariana; Gutiérrez-Mariscal, M; Gutiérrez-Mariscal; Hernández-Gallegos, Oswaldo; Hernández-Gallegos, O; Hernández-Gallegos; Méndez-de-la-Cruz, Fausto; Méndez-de-la-Cruz, F; Méndez-de-la-Cruz; Cortez, Diego; Cortez, D; Cortez	Genome Biol Evol
30984572	Phenotypic and genomic analysis of <i>Zymomonas mobilis</i> ZM4 mutants with enhanced ethanol tolerance.	<i>Zymomonas mobilis</i> ZM4 is an ethanol-producing microbe that is constitutively tolerant to this solvent. For a better understanding of the ethanol tolerance phenomenon we obtained and characterized two ZM4 mutants (ER79ap and ER79ag) with higher ethanol tolerance than the wild-type. Mutants were evaluated in different ethanol concentrations and this analysis showed that mutant ER79ap was more tolerant and had a better performance in terms of cell viability, than the wild-type strain and ER79ag mutant. Genotyping of the mutant strains showed that both carry non-synonymous mutations in <i>clpP</i> and <i>spoT/relA</i> genes. A third non-synonymous mutation was found only in strain ER79ap, in the <i>clpB</i> gene. Considering that ER79ap has the best tolerance to added ethanol, the mutant alleles of this strain were evaluated in ZM4 and here we show that while all of them contribute to ethanol tolerance, mutation within <i>spo</i>T/<i>rel</i>A gene seems to be the most important.	2019 Sep	Carreón-Rodríguez, Ofelia E; Carreón-Rodríguez, OE; Carreón-Rodríguez; Gutiérrez-Ríos, Rosa María; Gutiérrez-Ríos, RM; Gutiérrez-Ríos; Acosta, José L; Acosta, JL; Acosta; Martinez, Alfredo; Martinez, A; Martinez; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	Biotechnol Rep (Amst)
31406982	Phylogenomics Reveals Clear Cases of Misclassification and Genus-Wide Phylogenetic Markers for Acinetobacter.	The Gram-negative Acinetobacter genus has several species of clear medical relevance. Many fully sequenced genomes belonging to the genus have been published in recent years; however, there has not been a recent attempt to infer the evolutionary history of Acinetobacter with that vast amount of information. Here, through a phylogenomic approach, we established the most up-to-date view of the evolutionary relationships within this genus and highlighted several cases of poor classification, especially for the very closely related species within the Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-Acinetobacter baumannii complex (Acb complex). Furthermore, we determined appropriate phylogenetic markers for this genus and showed that concatenation of the top 13 gives a very decent reflection of the evolutionary relationships for the genus Acinetobacter. The intersection between our top markers and previously defined universal markers is very small. In general, our study shows that, although there seems to be hardly any universal markers, bespoke phylogenomic approaches can be used to infer the phylogeny of different bacterial genera. We expect that ad hoc phylogenomic approaches will be the standard in the years to come and will provide enough information to resolve intricate evolutionary relationships like those observed in the Acb complex.	2019 09	Mateo-Estrada, Valeria; Mateo-Estrada, V; Mateo-Estrada; Graña-Miraglia, Lucía; Graña-Miraglia, L; Graña-Miraglia; López-Leal, Gamaliel; López-Leal, G; López-Leal; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez	Genome Biol Evol
31598324	Tadpole body size and behaviour alter the social acquisition of a defensive bacterial symbiont.	Individual differences in host phenotypes can generate heterogeneity in the acquisition and transmission of microbes. Although this has become a prominent factor of disease epidemiology, host phenotypic variation might similarly underlie the transmission of microbial symbionts that defend against pathogen infection. Here, we test whether host body size and behaviour influence the social acquisition of a skin bacterium, <i>Janthinobacterium lividum</i>, which in some hosts can confer protection against infection by <i>Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis</i>, the causative agent of the amphibian skin disease chytridiomycosis. We measured body size and boldness (time spent in an open field) of green frog tadpoles and haphazardly constructed groups of six individuals. In some groups, we exposed one individual in each group to <i>J. lividum</i> and, in other groups, we inoculated a patch of aquarium pebbles to <i>J. lividum</i>. After 24 h, we swabbed each individual to estimate the presence of <i>J. lividum</i> on their skin. On average, tadpoles acquired nearly four times more bacteria when housed with an exposed individual compared to those housed with a patch of inoculated substrate. When tadpoles were housed with an exposed group-mate, larger and 'bolder' individuals acquired more bacteria. These data suggest that phenotypically biased acquisition of defensive symbionts might generate biased patterns of mortality from the pathogens against which they protect.	2019 Sep	Keiser, Carl N; Keiser, CN; Keiser; Wantman, Trina; Wantman, T; Wantman; Rebollar, Eria A; Rebollar, EA; Rebollar; Harris, Reid N; Harris, RN; Harris	R Soc Open Sci
31194874	Limits to a classic paradigm: most transcription factors in E. coli regulate genes involved in multiple biological processes.	Transcription factors (TFs) are important drivers of cellular decision-making. When bacteria encounter a change in the environment, TFs alter the expression of a defined set of genes in order to adequately respond. It is commonly assumed that genes regulated by the same TF are involved in the same biological process. Examples of this are methods that rely on coregulation to infer function of not-yet-annotated genes. We have previously shown that only 21% of TFs involved in metabolism regulate functionally homogeneous genes, based on the proximity of the gene products' catalyzed reactions in the metabolic network. Here, we provide more evidence to support the claim that a 1-TF/1-process relationship is not a general property. We show that the observed functional heterogeneity of regulons is not a result of the quality of the annotation of regulatory interactions, nor the absence of protein-metabolite interactions, and that it is also present when function is defined by Gene Ontology terms. Furthermore, the observed functional heterogeneity is different from the one expected by chance, supporting the notion that it is a biological property. To further explore the relationship between transcriptional regulation and metabolism, we analyzed five other types of regulatory groups and identified complex regulons (i.e. genes regulated by the same combination of TFs) as the most functionally homogeneous, and this is supported by coexpression data. Whether higher levels of related functions exist beyond metabolism and current functional annotations remains an open question.	2019 07	Ledezma-Tejeida, Daniela; Ledezma-Tejeida, D; Ledezma-Tejeida; Altamirano-Pacheco, Luis; Altamirano-Pacheco, L; Altamirano-Pacheco; Fajardo, Vicente; Fajardo, V; Fajardo; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
31346014	Complete Genome Sequence of Stenotrophomonas maltophilia Strain SVIA2, Isolated from Crude Oil-Contaminated Soil in Tabasco, Mexico.	<i>Stenotrophomonas maltophilia</i> strain SVIA2 was isolated from crude oil-contaminated soil from Tabasco, Mexico, and displayed a good potential for the degradation of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), using naphthalene, anthracene, phenanthridine, or biphenyl as the unique source of carbon. The SVIA2 genome contains essential genes involved in the degradation of PAHs.	2019 Jul	Elufisan, Temidayo Oluyomi; Elufisan, TO; Elufisan; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Rodríguez-Luna, Isabel Cristina; Rodríguez-Luna, IC; Rodríguez-Luna; Sánchez-Varela, Alejandro; Sánchez-Varela, A; Sánchez-Varela; Oyedara, Omotayo Opemipo; Oyedara, OO; Oyedara; Villalobos-López, Miguel Ángel; Villalobos-López, MÁ; Villalobos-López; Guo, Xianwu; Guo, X; Guo	Microbiol Resour Announc
31337792	Molecular epidemiology of Klebsiella variicola obtained from different sources.	Klebsiella variicola is considered an emerging pathogen in humans and has been described in different environments. K. variicola belongs to Klebsiella pneumoniae complex, which has expanded the taxonomic classification and hindered epidemiological and evolutionary studies. The present work describes the molecular epidemiology of K. variicola based on MultiLocus Sequence Typing (MLST) developed for this purpose. In total, 226 genomes obtained from public data bases and 28 isolates were evaluated, which were mainly obtained from humans, followed by plants, various animals, the environment and insects. A total 166 distinct sequence types (STs) were identified, with 39 STs comprising at least two isolates. The molecular epidemiology of K. variicola showed a global distribution for some STs was observed, and in some cases, isolates obtained from different sources belong to the same ST. Several examples of isolates corresponding to kingdom-crossing bacteria from plants to humans were identified, establishing this as a possible route of transmission. goeBURST analysis identified Clonal Complex 1 (CC1) as the clone with the greatest distribution. Whole-genome sequencing of K. variicola isolates revealed extended-spectrum β-lactamase- and carbapenemase-producing strains with an increase in pathogenicity. MLST of K. variicola is a strong molecular epidemiological tool that allows following the evolution of this bacterial species obtained from different environments.	2019 07	Barrios-Camacho, Humberto; Barrios-Camacho, H; Barrios-Camacho; Aguilar-Vera, Alejandro; Aguilar-Vera, A; Aguilar-Vera; Beltran-Rojel, Marilu; Beltran-Rojel, M; Beltran-Rojel; Aguilar-Vera, Edgar; Aguilar-Vera, E; Aguilar-Vera; Duran-Bedolla, Josefina; Duran-Bedolla, J; Duran-Bedolla; Rodriguez-Medina, Nadia; Rodriguez-Medina, N; Rodriguez-Medina; Lozano-Aguirre, Luis; Lozano-Aguirre, L; Lozano-Aguirre; Perez-Carrascal, Olga Maria; Perez-Carrascal, OM; Perez-Carrascal; Rojas, Jesús; Rojas, J; Rojas; Garza-Ramos, Ulises; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos	Sci Rep
30905871	Expression, purification, and characterization of a metagenomic thioesterase from activated sludge involved in the degradation of acylCoA-derivatives.	Metagenomic libraries are a novel and powerful approach to seek for pathways involved in xenobiotic degradation, since this technique abolishes the need for cultivating microorganisms that otherwise would be overlooked if they cannot grow on standard laboratory media and conditions. In this paper, we describe the expression, purification and characterization of a novel metagenomic thioesterase which was described to be involved in phenylacetic acid degradation (A. Sánchez-Reyes, R. Batista-García, G. Valdés-García E. Ortiz, L. Perezgasga, A. Zárate-Romero, N. Pastor, J. L. Folch-Mallol, A Family 13 thioesterase isolated from an activated sludge metagenome: insights into aromatic compounds metabolism, Proteins 85 (2017) 1222-1237). According to similarity and phylogenetic analyses, the enzyme seems to belong to an Actinobacterium. Nevertheless, after a process of denaturation and refolding, the protein expressed in E. coli was obtained in an active form. New data concerning the substrate preferences for this enzyme are presented which suggest that this thioesterase could be involved in breaking the ester bond in the CoA-linear acyl derivatives of the phenylacetic acetic pathway.	2019 07	Folch-Mallol, Jorge Luis; Folch-Mallol, JL; Folch-Mallol; Zárate, Andrés; Zárate, A; Zárate; Sánchez-Reyes, Ayixón; Sánchez-Reyes, A; Sánchez-Reyes; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara	Protein Expr Purif
30867545	Integrating the role of antifungal bacteria into skin symbiotic communities of three Neotropical frog species.	Chytridiomycosis, caused by the pathogen Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd), has led to population declines and extinctions of frog species around the world. While it is known that symbiotic skin bacteria can play a protective role against pathogens, it is not known how these defensive bacteria are integrated into the bacterial community on amphibian skin. In this study, we used 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing, culturing and Bd inhibition bioassays to characterize the communities of skin bacteria on three Neotropical frog species that persist in a Bd-infected area in Panama and determined the abundance and integration of anti-Bd bacteria into the community. We found that the two treefrog species had a similar bacterial community structure, which differed from the more diverse community found on the terrestrial frog. Co-occurrence networks also revealed differences between frog species such that the treefrogs had a significantly higher number of culturable Bd-inhibitory OTUs with high centrality scores compared with the terrestrial frog. We found that culture-dependent OTUs captured between 21 and 39% of the total relative abundance revealed in culture-independent communities. Our results suggest different ecological strategies occurring within skin antifungal communities on host species that have not succumbed to Bd infections in the wild.	2019 07	Rebollar, Eria A; Rebollar, EA; Rebollar; Bridges, Tiffany; Bridges, T; Bridges; Hughey, Myra C; Hughey, MC; Hughey; Medina, Daniel; Medina, D; Medina; Belden, Lisa K; Belden, LK; Belden; Harris, Reid N; Harris, RN; Harris	ISME J
31176475	Metatranscriptomics and nitrogen fixation from the rhizoplane of maize plantlets inoculated with a group of PGPRs.	Plant roots are inhabited by a large diversity of microbes, some of which are beneficial for the growth of plants and known as plant growth promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR). In this work, we designed a multispecies inoculum of PGPRs containing Rhizobium phaseoli, Sinorhizobium americanum and Azospirillum brasilense nitrogen-fixing strains and other plant-growth promoting bacteria such as Bacillus amyloliquefaciens and Methylobacterium extorquens. We evaluated the effect of this group of bacteria on the growth of one-month-old maize plants. The multispecies inoculum exerted a beneficial effect on maize plants that was greater than that obtained with single-bacteria. Using the same multispecies inoculant, acetylene reduction was recorded in 5-day-old roots indicating active nitrogen fixation by bacteria in maize. Azospirillum nitrogen fixation was lower than that obtained with the multispecies inoculum. We focused on the analysis of R. phaseoli gene expression in presence of other PGPRs. Many R. phaseoli up- regulated genes in roots in the presence of other bacteria are hypothetical, showing our poor knowledge of bacteria-bacteria interactions. Other genes indicated bacterial nutrient competition and R. phaseoli stress. Differentially expressed transcriptional regulators were identified that may be key in bacteria-bacteria interaction regulation. Additionally, gene expression was analyzed from Azospirillum but not from sinorhizobia and methylobacteria due to the low number of transcripts obtained from maize roots. The metatranscriptomic analysis from maize roots showed expression of Azospirillum nif genes in the presence of PGPR bacteria. Our hypothesis is that other bacteria stimulate Azospirillum capacity to fix nitrogen and this should be further explored.	2019 Jul	Gómez-Godínez, Lorena Jacqueline; Gómez-Godínez, LJ; Gómez-Godínez; Fernandez-Valverde, Selene Lizbeth; Fernandez-Valverde, SL; Fernandez-Valverde; Martinez Romero, Julio Cesar; Martinez Romero, JC; Martinez Romero; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
31140963	Minimal standards for the description of new genera and species of rhizobia and agrobacteria.	Herein the members of the Subcommittee on Taxonomy of Rhizobia and Agrobacteria of the International Committee on Systematics of Prokaryotes review recent developments in rhizobial and agrobacterial taxonomy and propose updated minimal standards for the description of new species (and genera) in these groups. The essential requirements (minimal standards) for description of a new species are (1) a genome sequence of at least the proposed type strain and (2) evidence for differentiation from other species based on genome sequence comparisons. It is also recommended that (3) genetic variation within the species is documented with sequence data from several clearly different strains and (4) phenotypic features are described, and their variation documented with data from a relevant set of representative strains. Furthermore, it is encouraged that information is provided on (5) nodulation or pathogenicity phenotypes, as appropriate, with relevant gene sequences. These guidelines supplement the current rules of general bacterial taxonomy, which require (6) a name that conforms to the International Code of Nomenclature of Prokaryotes, (7) validation of the name by publication either directly in the International Journal of Systematic and Evolutionary Microbiology or in a validation list when published elsewhere, and (8) deposition of the type strain in two international culture collections in separate countries.	2019 Jul	de Lajudie, Philippe M; de Lajudie, PM; de Lajudie; Andrews, Mitchell; Andrews, M; Andrews; Ardley, Julie; Ardley, J; Ardley; Eardly, Bertrand; Eardly, B; Eardly; Jumas-Bilak, Estelle; Jumas-Bilak, E; Jumas-Bilak; Kuzmanović, Nemanja; Kuzmanović, N; Kuzmanović; Lassalle, Florent; Lassalle, F; Lassalle; Lindström, Kristina; Lindström, K; Lindström; Mhamdi, Ridha; Mhamdi, R; Mhamdi; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Moulin, Lionel; Moulin, L; Moulin; Mousavi, Seyed Abdollah; Mousavi, SA; Mousavi; Nesme, Xavier; Nesme, X; Nesme; Peix, Alvaro; Peix, A; Peix; Puławska, Joanna; Puławska, J; Puławska; Steenkamp, Emma; Steenkamp, E; Steenkamp; Stępkowski, Tomasz; Stępkowski, T; Stępkowski; Tian, Chang-Fu; Tian, CF; Tian; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Wei, Gehong; Wei, G; Wei; Willems, Anne; Willems, A; Willems; Zilli, Jerri; Zilli, J; Zilli; Young, Peter; Young, P; Young	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
31335270	Resistome and a Novel <i>bla</i><sub>NDM-1</sub>-Harboring Plasmid of an <i>Acinetobacter haemolyticus</i> Strain from a Children's Hospital in Puebla, Mexico.	<i>Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii</i> complex isolates have been frequently associated with hospital and community infections, with <i>A. baumannii</i> being the most common. Other <i>Acinetobacter</i> spp. not belonging to this complex also cause infections in hospital settings, and the incidence has increased over the past few years. Some species of the <i>Acinetobacter</i> genus possess a great diversity of antibiotic resistance mechanisms, such as efflux pumps, porins, and resistance genes that can be acquired and disseminated by mobilizable genetic elements. By means of whole-genome sequencing, we describe in the clinical <i>Acinetobacter haemolyticus</i> strain AN54 different mechanisms of resistance that involve <i>bla</i><sub>OXA-265</sub>, <i>bla</i><sub>NDM-1</sub>, <i>aphA6</i>, <i>aac(6')-Ig</i>, and a resistance-nodulation-cell division-type efflux pump. This strain carries six plasmids, of which the plasmid pAhaeAN54e contains <i>bla</i><sub>NDM-1</sub> in a Tn125-like transposon that is truncated at the 3' end. This strain also has an insertion sequence IS<i>91</i> and seven genes encoding hypothetical proteins. The pAhaeAN54e plasmid is nontypable and different from other plasmids carrying <i>bla</i><sub>NDM-1</sub> that have been reported in Mexico and other countries. The presence of these kinds of plasmids in an opportunistic pathogen such as <i>A. haemolyticus</i> highlights the role that these plasmids play in the dissemination of antibiotic resistance genes, especially against carbapenems, in Mexican hospitals.	2019 Sep	Bello-López, Elena; Bello-López, E; Bello-López; Castro-Jaimes, Semiramis; Castro-Jaimes, S; Castro-Jaimes; Cevallos, Miguel Ángel; Cevallos, MÁ; Cevallos; Rocha-Gracia, Rosa Del Carmen; Rocha-Gracia, RDC; Rocha-Gracia; Castañeda-Lucio, Miguel; Castañeda-Lucio, M; Castañeda-Lucio; Sáenz, Yolanda; Sáenz, Y; Sáenz; Torres, Carmen; Torres, C; Torres; Gutiérrez-Cazares, Zita; Gutiérrez-Cazares, Z; Gutiérrez-Cazares; Martínez-Laguna, Ygnacio; Martínez-Laguna, Y; Martínez-Laguna; Lozano-Zarain, Patricia; Lozano-Zarain, P; Lozano-Zarain	Microb Drug Resist
30981884	The structure of (E)-biformene synthase provides insights into the biosynthesis of bacterial bicyclic labdane-related diterpenoids.	The labdane-related diterpenoids (LRDs) are a large group of natural products with a broad range of biological activities. They are synthesized through two consecutive reactions catalyzed by class II and I diterpene synthases (DTSs). The structural complexity of LRDs mainly depends on the catalytic activity of class I DTSs, which catalyze the formation of bicyclic to pentacyclic LRDs, using as a substrate the catalytic product of class II DTSs. To date, the structural and mechanistic details for the biosynthesis of bicyclic LRDs skeletons catalyzed by class I DTSs remain unclear. This work presents the first X-ray crystal structure of an (E)-biformene synthase, LrdC, from the soil bacterium Streptomyces sp. strain K155. LrdC was identified as a part of an LRD cluster of five genes and was found to be a class I DTS that catalyzes the Mg<sup>2+</sup>-dependent synthesis of bicyclic LRD (E)-biformene by the dephosphorylation and rearrangement of normal copalyl pyrophosphate (CPP). Structural analysis of LrdC coupled with docking studies suggests that Phe189 prevents cyclization beyond the bicyclic LRD product through a strong stabilization of the allylic carbocation intermediate, while Tyr317 functions as a general base catalyst to deprotonate the CPP substrate. Structural comparisons of LrdC with homology models of bacterial bicyclic LRD-forming enzymes (CldD, RmnD and SclSS), as well as with the crystallographic structure of bacterial tetracyclic LRD ent-kaurene synthase (BjKS), provide further structural insights into the biosynthesis of bacterial LRD natural products.	2019 07	Centeno-Leija, Sara; Centeno-Leija, S; Centeno-Leija; Tapia-Cabrera, Silvana; Tapia-Cabrera, S; Tapia-Cabrera; Guzmán-Trampe, Silvia; Guzmán-Trampe, S; Guzmán-Trampe; Esquivel, Baldomero; Esquivel, B; Esquivel; Esturau-Escofet, Nuria; Esturau-Escofet, N; Esturau-Escofet; Tierrafría, Víctor H; Tierrafría, VH; Tierrafría; Rodríguez-Sanoja, Romina; Rodríguez-Sanoja, R; Rodríguez-Sanoja; Zárate-Romero, Andrés; Zárate-Romero, A; Zárate-Romero; Stojanoff, Vivian; Stojanoff, V; Stojanoff; Rudiño-Piñera, Enrique; Rudiño-Piñera, E; Rudiño-Piñera; Sánchez, Sergio; Sánchez, S; Sánchez; Serrano-Posada, Hugo; Serrano-Posada, H; Serrano-Posada	J Struct Biol
31275740	Skin bacterial communities of neotropical treefrogs vary with local environmental conditions at the time of sampling.	The amphibian skin microbiome has been the focus of recent studies aiming to better understand the role of these microbial symbionts in host defense against disease. However, host-associated microbial communities are complex and dynamic, and changes in their composition and structure can influence their function. Understanding temporal variation of bacterial communities on amphibian skin is critical for establishing baselines from which to improve the development of mitigation techniques based on probiotic therapy and provides long-term host protection in a changing environment. Here, we investigated whether microbial communities on amphibian skin change over time at a single site. To examine this, we collected skin swabs from two pond-breeding species of treefrogs, <i>Agalychnis callidryas</i> and <i>Dendropsophus ebraccatus,</i> over 4 years at a single lowland tropical pond in Panamá. Relative abundance of operational taxonomic units (OTUs) based on 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing was used to determine bacterial community diversity on the skin of both treefrog species. We found significant variation in bacterial community structure across long and short-term time scales. Skin bacterial communities differed across years on both species and between seasons and sampling days only in <i>D. ebraccatus</i>. Importantly, bacterial community structures across days were as variable as year level comparisons. The differences in bacterial community were driven primarily by differences in relative abundance of key OTUs and explained by rainfall at the time of sampling. These findings suggest that skin-associated microbiomes are highly variable across time, and that for tropical lowland sites, rainfall is a good predictor of variability. However, more research is necessary to elucidate the significance of temporal variation in bacterial skin communities and their maintenance for amphibian conservation efforts.	2019	Estrada, Angie; Estrada, A; Estrada; Hughey, Myra C; Hughey, MC; Hughey; Medina, Daniel; Medina, D; Medina; Rebollar, Eria A; Rebollar, EA; Rebollar; Walke, Jenifer B; Walke, JB; Walke; Harris, Reid N; Harris, RN; Harris; Belden, Lisa K; Belden, LK; Belden	PeerJ
31222094	Effect of heritable symbionts on maternally-derived embryo transcripts.	Maternally-transmitted endosymbiotic bacteria are ubiquitous in insects. Among other influential phenotypes, many heritable symbionts of arthropods are notorious for manipulating host reproduction through one of four reproductive syndromes, which are generally exerted during early developmental stages of the host: male feminization; parthenogenesis induction; male killing; and cytoplasmic incompatibility (CI). Major advances have been achieved in understanding mechanisms and identifying symbiont factors involved in reproductive manipulation, particularly male killing and cytoplasmic incompatibility. Nonetheless, whether cytoplasmically-transmitted bacteria influence the maternally-loaded components of the egg or early embryo has not been examined. In the present study, we investigated whether heritable endosymbionts that cause different reproductive phenotypes in Drosophila melanogaster influence the mRNA transcriptome of early embryos. We used mRNA-seq to evaluate differential expression in Drosophila embryos lacking endosymbionts (control) to those harbouring the male-killing Spiroplasma poulsonii strain MSRO-Br, the CI-inducing Wolbachia strain wMel, or Spiroplasma poulsonii strain Hyd1; a strain that lacks a reproductive phenotype and is naturally associated with Drosophila hydei. We found no consistent evidence of influence of symbiont on mRNA composition of early embryos, suggesting that the reproductive manipulation mechanism does not involve alteration of maternally-loaded transcripts. In addition, we capitalized on several available mRNA-seq datasets derived from Spiroplasma-infected Drosophila melanogaster embryos, to search for signals of depurination of rRNA, consistent with the activity of Ribosome Inactivating Proteins (RIPs) encoded by Spiroplasma poulsonii. We found small but statistically significant signals of depurination of Drosophila rRNA in the Spiroplasma treatments (both strains), but not in the symbiont-free control or Wolbachia treatment, consistent with the action of RIPs. The depurination signal was slightly stronger in the treatment with the male-killing strain. This result supports a recent report that RIP-induced damage contributes to male embryo death.	2019 06	Mateos, Mariana; Mateos, M; Mateos; Silva, Nadisha O; Silva, NO; Silva; Ramirez, Paulino; Ramirez, P; Ramirez; Higareda-Alvear, Victor M; Higareda-Alvear, VM; Higareda-Alvear; Aramayo, Rodolfo; Aramayo, R; Aramayo; Erickson, James W; Erickson, JW; Erickson	Sci Rep
31263459	A Genomotaxonomy View of the <i>Bradyrhizobium</i> Genus.	Whole genome analysis of the <i>Bradyrhizobium</i> genus using average nucleotide identity (ANI) and phylogenomics showed the genus to be essentially monophyletic with seven robust groups within this taxon that includes nitrogen-fixing nodule forming bacteria as well as free living strains. Despite the wide genetic diversity of these bacteria no indication was found to suggest that the <i>Bradyrhizobium</i> genus have to split in different taxa. Bradyrhizobia have larger genomes than other genera of the Bradyrhizobiaceae family, probably reflecting their metabolic diversity and different lifestyles. Few plasmids in the sequenced strains were revealed from <i>rep</i> gene analysis and a relatively low proportion of the genome is devoted to mobile genetic elements. Sequence diversity of <i>recA</i> and <i>glnII</i> gene metadata was used to theoretically estimate the number of existing species and to predict how many would exist. There may be many more species than those presently described with predictions of around 800 species in nature. Different arguments are presented suggesting that nodulation might have arose in the ancestral genus <i>Bradyrhizobium</i>.	2019	Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Front Microbiol
30786165	Integrating Bacterial ChIP-seq and RNA-seq Data With SnakeChunks.	Next-generation sequencing (NGS) is becoming a routine approach in most domains of the life sciences. To ensure reproducibility of results, there is a crucial need to improve the automation of NGS data processing and enable forthcoming studies relying on big datasets. Although user-friendly interfaces now exist, there remains a strong need for accessible solutions that allow experimental biologists to analyze and explore their results in an autonomous and flexible way. The protocols here describe a modular system that enable a user to compose and fine-tune workflows based on SnakeChunks, a library of rules for the Snakemake workflow engine. They are illustrated using a study combining ChIP-seq and RNA-seq to identify target genes of the global transcription factor FNR in Escherichia coli, which has the advantage that results can be compared with the most up-to-date collection of existing knowledge about transcriptional regulation in this model organism, extracted from the RegulonDB database. © 2019 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.	2019 06	Rioualen, Claire; Rioualen, C; Rioualen; Charbonnier-Khamvongsa, Lucie; Charbonnier-Khamvongsa, L; Charbonnier-Khamvongsa; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; van Helden, Jacques; van Helden, J; van Helden	Curr Protoc Bioinformatics
30922683	Microbiome-MX 2018: microbiota and microbiome opportunities in Mexico, a megadiverse country.	A weekly conference series paired with lectures entitled "Microbiome-MX: exploring the Microbiota and Microbiome Research in Mexico" was organized to provide a multidisciplinary overview of the most recent research done in Mexico using high-throughput sequencing. Scientists and postgraduate students from several disciplines such as microbiology, bioinformatics, virology, immunology, nutrition, and medical genomics gathered to discuss state of the art in each of their respective subjects of expertise, as well as advances, applications and new opportunities on microbiota/microbiome research. In particular, high-throughput sequencing is a crucial tool to understand the challenges of a megadiverse developing country as Mexico, and moreover to know the scientific capital and capabilities available for collaboration. The conference series addressed three main topics important for Mexico: i) the complex role of microbiota in health and prevalent diseases such as obesity, diabetes, inflammatory bowel disease, tuberculosis, HIV, autoimmune diseases and gastric cancer; ii) the use of local, traditional and prehispanic products as pre/probiotics to modulate the microbiota and improve human health; and iii) the impact of the microbiota in shaping the biodiversity of economically important terrestrial and marine ecosystems. Herein, we summarize the contributions that Mexican microbiota/microbiome research is making to the global trends, describing the highlights of the conferences and lectures, rather than a review of the state-of-the-art of this research. This meeting report also presents the efforts of a multidisciplinary group of scientist to encourage collaborations and bringing this research field closer for younger generations.	2019 Jun - Aug	Cornejo-Granados, Fernanda; Cornejo-Granados, F; Cornejo-Granados; Calderón de la Barca, Ana María; Calderón de la Barca, AM; Calderón de la Barca; Torres, Nimbe; Torres, N; Torres; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Torres, Javier; Torres, J; Torres; López-Vidal, Yolanda; López-Vidal, Y; López-Vidal; Soberón, Xavier; Soberón, X; Soberón; Partida-Martínez, Laila P; Partida-Martínez, LP; Partida-Martínez; Pinto-Cardoso, Sandra; Pinto-Cardoso, S; Pinto-Cardoso; Alcaraz, Luis David; Alcaraz, LD; Alcaraz; Pardo-López, Liliana; Pardo-López, L; Pardo-López; Canizales-Quinteros, Samuel; Canizales-Quinteros, S; Canizales-Quinteros; Puente, José Luis; Puente, JL; Puente; Ochoa-Leyva, Adrián; Ochoa-Leyva, A; Ochoa-Leyva	Res Microbiol
30358529	Proteins in the periplasmic space and outer membrane vesicles of Rhizobium etli CE3 grown in minimal medium are largely distinct and change with growth phase.	Rhizobium etli CE3 grown in succinate-ammonium minimal medium (MM) excreted outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) with diameters of 40 to 100 nm. Proteins from the OMVs and the periplasmic space were isolated from 6 and 24 h cultures and identified by proteome analysis. A total of 770 proteins were identified: 73.8 and 21.3 % of these occurred only in the periplasm and OMVs, respectively, and only 4.9 % were found in both locations. The majority of proteins found in either location were present only at 6 or 24 h: in the periplasm and OMVs, only 24 and 9 % of proteins, respectively, were present at both sampling times, indicating a time-dependent differential sorting of proteins into the two compartments. The OMVs contained proteins with physiologically varied roles, including Rhizobium adhering proteins (Rap), polysaccharidases, polysaccharide export proteins, auto-aggregation and adherence proteins, glycosyl transferases, peptidoglycan binding and cross-linking enzymes, potential cell wall-modifying enzymes, porins, multidrug efflux RND family proteins, ABC transporter proteins and heat shock proteins. As expected, proteins with known periplasmic localizations (phosphatases, phosphodiesterases, pyrophosphatases) were found only in the periplasm, along with numerous proteins involved in amino acid and carbohydrate metabolism and transport. Nearly one-quarter of the proteins present in the OMVs were also found in our previous analysis of the R. etli total exproteome of MM-grown cells, indicating that these nanoparticles are an important mechanism for protein excretion in this species.	2019 06	Taboada, Hermenegildo; Taboada, H; Taboada; Meneses, Niurka; Meneses, N; Meneses; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Vargas-Lagunas, Carmen; Vargas-Lagunas, C; Vargas-Lagunas; Buchs, Natasha; Buchs, N; Buchs; Castro-Mondragón, Jaime A; Castro-Mondragón, JA; Castro-Mondragón; Heller, Manfred; Heller, M; Heller; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación	Microbiology (Reading)
30614762	Unexplored Genetic Diversity of Multidrug- and Extremely Drug-Resistant <i>Acinetobacter baumannii</i> Isolates from Tertiary Hospitals in Honduras.	Although <i>Acinetobacter baumannii</i> has become one of the most important nosocomial pathogens worldwide, very little is known about the genetic identity of isolates from less developed countries in Latin America. To alleviate this, we sequenced the genomes of 16 <i>A. baumannii</i> isolates from Honduras. Whole-genome sequencing was conducted on 16 isolates from five Honduran Hospitals. With the sequences of these Honduran isolates and other 42 publically available genomes, a maximum likelihood phylogeny was constructed to establish the relationship between the Honduran isolates and those belonging to the International Clones (ICs). In addition, sequence type (ST) assignation was conducted by the PubMLST, and antibiotic resistance genes were identified using ResFinder. The Honduran isolates are highly diverse and contain new allele combinations under the Bartual multilocus sequence typing scheme. The most common STs were ST<sub>B</sub>447/ST<sub>P</sub>10 and ST<sub>B</sub>758/ST<sub>P</sub>156. Furthermore, none of these isolates belongs to clonal complexes related to the ICs. Antibiotic susceptibility profiles of these isolates showed that they are multidrug resistant (MDR) or extensively drug resistant (XDR). In addition, the Honduran isolates had genes involved in resistance to seven antibiotic families. For instance, several <i>bla</i>OXA alleles were found, including <i>bla</i>OXA-23 and a gene encoding the metallo-beta-lactamase NDM-1. Notably, nine of the Honduran isolates have antibiotic resistance genes to three or more antibiotic families. In summary, in this study, we unveiled an untapped source of genetic diversity of MDR and XDR isolates; notably, these isolates did not belong to the well-known ICs.	2019 Jun	López-Leal, Gamaliel; López-Leal, G; López-Leal; Zuniga-Moya, Julio César; Zuniga-Moya, JC; Zuniga-Moya; Castro-Jaimes, Semiramis; Castro-Jaimes, S; Castro-Jaimes; Graña-Miraglia, Lucía; Graña-Miraglia, L; Graña-Miraglia; Pérez-Oseguera, Ángeles; Pérez-Oseguera, Á; Pérez-Oseguera; Reyes-García, Hilda Sarahi; Reyes-García, HS; Reyes-García; Gough-Coto, Simmons David; Gough-Coto, SD; Gough-Coto; Pavón-Madrid, René; Pavón-Madrid, R; Pavón-Madrid; Bejarano, Suyapa Aurora; Bejarano, SA; Bejarano; Ferrera, Annabelle; Ferrera, A; Ferrera; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	Microb Drug Resist
31151153	Exo-Metabolites of <i>Phaseolus vulgaris</i>-Nodulating Rhizobial Strains.	Rhizobia are able to convert dinitrogen into biologically available forms of nitrogen through their symbiotic association with leguminous plants. This results in plant growth promotion, and also in conferring host resistance to different types of stress. These bacteria can interact with other organisms and survive in a wide range of environments, such as soil, rhizosphere, and inside roots. As most of these processes are molecularly mediated, the aim of this research was to identify and quantify the exo-metabolites produced by <i>Rhizobium etli</i> CFN42, <i>Rhizobium leucaenae</i> CFN299, <i>Rhizobium tropici</i> CIAT899, <i>Rhizobium phaseoli</i> Ch24-10, and <i>Sinorhizobium americanum</i> CFNEI156, by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). Bacteria were grown in free-living cultures using minimal medium containing sucrose and glutamate. Interestingly, we found that even when these bacteria belong to the same family (<i>Rhizobiaceae</i>) and all form nitrogen-fixing nodules on <i>Phaseolus vulgaris</i> roots, they exhibited different patterns and concentrations of chemical species produced by them.	2019 May	Montes-Grajales, Diana; Montes-Grajales, D; Montes-Grajales; Esturau-Escofet, Nuria; Esturau-Escofet, N; Esturau-Escofet; Esquivel, Baldomero; Esquivel, B; Esquivel; Martinez-Romero, Esperanza; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero	Metabolites
31118102	Similarity corpus on microbial transcriptional regulation.	The ability to express the same meaning in different ways is a well-known property of natural language. This amazing property is the source of major difficulties in natural language processing. Given the constant increase in published literature, its curation and information extraction would strongly benefit from efficient automatic processes, for which corpora of sentences evaluated by experts are a valuable resource.	2019 05	Lithgow-Serrano, Oscar; Lithgow-Serrano, O; Lithgow-Serrano; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Ishida-Gutiérrez, Cecilia; Ishida-Gutiérrez, C; Ishida-Gutiérrez; Mejía-Almonte, Citlalli; Mejía-Almonte, C; Mejía-Almonte; Tierrafría, Víctor H; Tierrafría, VH; Tierrafría; Martínez-Luna, Sara; Martínez-Luna, S; Martínez-Luna; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Velázquez-Ramírez, David; Velázquez-Ramírez, D; Velázquez-Ramírez; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	J Biomed Semantics
31143531	PEST sequences from a cactus dehydrin regulate its proteolytic degradation.	Dehydrins (DHNs) are intrinsically disordered proteins expressed under cellular dehydration-related stresses. In this study, we identified potential proteolytic PEST sequences located at the central and C-terminal regions from the <i>Opuntia streptacantha</i> OpsDHN1 protein. In order to evaluate these PEST sequences as proteolytic tags, we generated a translational fusion with the GUS reporter protein and OpsDHN1 coding sequence. We found a GUS degradation effect in tobacco agro-infiltrated leaves and Arabidopsis transgenic lines that expressed the fusion GUS::OpsDHN1 full-length. Also, two additional translational fusions between OpsDHN1 protein fragments that include the central (GUS::PEST-1) or the C-terminal (GUS::PEST-2) PEST sequences were able to decrease the GUS activity, with PEST-2 showing the greatest reduction in GUS activity. GUS signal was abated when the OpsDHN1 fragment that includes both PEST sequences (GUS::PEST-1-2) were fused to GUS. Treatment with the MG132 proteasome inhibitor attenuated the PEST-mediated GUS degradation. Point mutations of phosphorylatable residues in PEST sequences reestablished GUS signal, hence these sequences are important during protein degradation. Finally, <i>in silico</i> analysis identified potential PEST sequences in other plant DHNs. This is the first study reporting presence of PEST motifs in dehydrins.	2019	Salazar-Retana, Adriana L; Salazar-Retana, AL; Salazar-Retana; Maruri-López, Israel; Maruri-López, I; Maruri-López; Hernández-Sánchez, Itzell E; Hernández-Sánchez, IE; Hernández-Sánchez; Becerra-Flora, Alicia; Becerra-Flora, A; Becerra-Flora; Guerrero-González, María de la Luz; Guerrero-González, ML; Guerrero-González; Jiménez-Bremont, Juan Francisco; Jiménez-Bremont, JF; Jiménez-Bremont	PeerJ
31081746	Rhizobium tropici CIAT 899 copA gene plays a fundamental role in copper tolerance in both free life and symbiosis with Phaseolus vulgaris.	Rhizobium tropici CIAT 899 is a facultative symbiotic diazotroph able to deal with stressful concentrations of metals. Nevertheless the molecular mechanisms involved in metal tolerance have not been elucidated. Copper (Cu<sup>2+</sup>) is a metal component essential for the heme-copper respiratory oxidases and enzymes that catalyse redox reactions, however, it is highly toxic when intracellular trace concentrations are surpassed. In this study, we report that R. tropici CIAT 899 is more tolerant to Cu<sup>2+</sup> than other Rhizobium and Sinorhizobium species. Through Tn5 random mutagenesis we identify a R. tropici mutant strain with a severe reduction in Cu<sup>2+</sup> tolerance. The Tn5 insertion disrupted the gene RTCIAT899_CH17575, encoding a putative heavy metal efflux P1B-1-type ATPase designated as copA. Phaseolus vulgaris plants inoculated with the copA::Tn5 mutant in the presence of toxic Cu<sup>2+</sup> concentrations showed a drastic reduction in plant and nodule dry weight, as well as nitrogenase activity. Nodules induced by the copA::Tn5 mutant present an increase in H2O2 concentration, lipoperoxidation and accumulate 40-fold more Cu<sup>2+</sup> than nodules formed by the wild-type strain. The copA::Tn5 mutant complemented with the copA gene recovered the wild-type symbiotic phenotypes. Therefore, the copA gene is essential for R. tropici CIAT 899 to survive in copper-rich environments in both free life and symbiosis with P. vulgaris plants.	2019 06	Elizalde-Díaz, J Pedro; Elizalde-Díaz, JP; Elizalde-Díaz; Hernández-Lucas, Ismael; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Medina-Aparicio, Liliana; Medina-Aparicio, L; Medina-Aparicio; Dávalos, Araceli; Dávalos, A; Dávalos; Leija, Alfonso; Leija, A; Leija; Alvarado-Affantranger, Xochitl; Alvarado-Affantranger, X; Alvarado-Affantranger; García-García, Jorge Donato; García-García, JD; García-García; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Garcia-de Los Santos, Alejandro; Garcia-de Los Santos, A; Garcia-de Los Santos	Microbiology (Reading)
31134023	<i>Rhizobium etli</i> Produces Nitrous Oxide by Coupling the Assimilatory and Denitrification Pathways.	More than two-thirds of the powerful greenhouse gas nitrous oxide (N<sub>2</sub>O) emissions from soils can be attributed to microbial denitrification and nitrification processes. Bacterial denitrification reactions are catalyzed by the periplasmic (Nap) or membrane-bound (Nar) nitrate reductases, nitrite reductases (NirK/<i>cd</i> <sub>1</sub>Nir), nitric oxide reductases (cNor, qNor/ Cu<sub>A</sub>Nor), and nitrous oxide reductase (Nos) encoded by <i>nap</i>/<i>nar</i>, <i>nir</i>, <i>nor</i> and <i>nos</i> genes, respectively. <i>Rhizobium etli</i> CFN42, the microsymbiont of common bean, is unable to respire nitrate under anoxic conditions and to perform a complete denitrification pathway. This bacterium lacks the <i>nap</i>, <i>nar</i> and <i>nos</i> genes but contains genes encoding NirK and cNor. In this work, we demonstrated that <i>R. etli</i> is able to grow with nitrate as the sole nitrogen source under aerobic and microoxic conditions. Genetic and functional characterization of a gene located in the <i>R. etli</i> chromosome and annotated as <i>narB</i> demonstrated that growth under aerobic or microoxic conditions with nitrate as nitrogen source as well as nitrate reductase activity requires NarB. In addition to be involved in nitrate assimilation, NarB is also required for NO and N<sub>2</sub>O production by NirK and cNor, respectively, in cells grown microoxically with nitrate as the only N source. Furthermore, β-glucuronidase activity from <i>nirK::uidA</i> and <i>norC::uidA</i> fusions, as well as NorC expression and Nir and Nor activities revealed that expression of <i>nor</i> genes under microoxic conditions also depends on nitrate reduction by NarB. Our results suggest that nitrite produced by NarB from assimilatory nitrate reduction is detoxified by NirK and cNor denitrifying enzymes that convert nitrite into NO which in turn is reduced to N<sub>2</sub>O, respectively.	2019	Hidalgo-García, Alba; Hidalgo-García, A; Hidalgo-García; Torres, María J; Torres, MJ; Torres; Salas, Ana; Salas, A; Salas; Bedmar, Eulogio J; Bedmar, EJ; Bedmar; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Delgado, María J; Delgado, MJ; Delgado	Front Microbiol
30928704	Insight into the structure, function and conjugative transfer of pLPU83a, an accessory plasmid of Rhizobium favelukesii LPU83.	Plasmids are widely distributed in rhizobia, a group of bacteria able to establish symbiotic relationships with the roots of legume plants. Two types of conjugative transfer (CT) regulation of these elements have been described in more detail. The most prevalent is through Quorum-Sensing (QS), mediated by the interaction of the TraR regulator protein and its cognate acyl-homoserine lactone (AHL) synthesized by TraI. In this study, we analyzed rhizobial plasmids classified according to their TraR regulators into four different groups. Each group has a particular genomic architecture. In one of the groups (I-C), represented by pLPU83a from Rhizobium favelukesii LPU83, CT induction requires TraR. With manual annotation, a traI was located in the plasmid distant to the traR gene. These features make pLPU83a an interesting plasmid for studying novel mechanisms of CT regulation. We mutagenized the traI gene, and found that it does not participate in CT regulation. Furthermore, we studied whether pLPU83a is subject to QS regulation by determining CT at different growth stages (cell densities). Our results showed no positive correlation between increase in culture densities and CT induction, on the contrary a slight decrease in CT was found at higher culture densities, unlike other TraR-depending plasmids. Our results show that transfer of pLPU83a is not regulated in a QS-dependent manner, and suggest that molecules not yet identified may activate its CT. Also, accumulation of a putative inhibitor cannot be disregarded.	2019 05	Castellani, Lucas G; Castellani, LG; Castellani; Nilsson, Juliet F; Nilsson, JF; Nilsson; Wibberg, Daniel; Wibberg, D; Wibberg; Schlüter, Andreas; Schlüter, A; Schlüter; Pühler, Alfred; Pühler, A; Pühler; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; Pistorio, Mariano; Pistorio, M; Pistorio; Torres Tejerizo, Gonzalo; Torres Tejerizo, G; Torres Tejerizo	Plasmid
30612723	Nodule bacteria from the cultured legume Phaseolus dumosus (belonging to the Phaseolus vulgaris cross-inoculation group) with common tropici phenotypic characteristics and symbiovar but distinctive phylogenomic position and chromid.	Phaseolus dumosus is an endemic species from mountain tops in Mexico that was found in traditional agriculture areas in Veracruz, Mexico. P. dumosus plants were identified by ITS sequences and their nodules were collected from agricultural fields or from trap plant experiments in the laboratory. Bacteria from P. dumosus nodules were identified as belonging to the phaseoli-etli-leguminosarum (PEL) or to the tropici group by 16S rRNA gene sequences. We obtained complete closed genomes from two P. dumosus isolates CCGE531 and CCGE532 that were phylogenetically placed within the tropici group but with a distinctive phylogenomic position and low average nucleotide identity (ANI). CCGE531 and CCGE532 had common phenotypic characteristics with tropici type B rhizobial symbionts. Genome synteny analysis and ANI showed that P. dumosus isolates had different chromids and our analysis suggests that chromids have independently evolved in different lineages of the Rhizobium genus. Finally, we considered that P. dumosus and Phaseolus vulgaris plants belong to the same cross-inoculation group since they have conserved symbiotic affinites for rhizobia.	2019 May	Ramírez-Puebla, Shamayim T; Ramírez-Puebla, ST; Ramírez-Puebla; Hernández, Marco A Rogel; Hernández, MAR; Hernández; Guerrero Ruiz, Gabriela; Guerrero Ruiz, G; Guerrero Ruiz; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Martinez-Romero, Julio C; Martinez-Romero, JC; Martinez-Romero; Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis Eduardo; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Núñez-de la Mora, Alejandra; Núñez-de la Mora, A; Núñez-de la Mora; Amescua-Villela, Guadalupe; Amescua-Villela, G; Amescua-Villela; Negrete-Yankelevich, Simoneta; Negrete-Yankelevich, S; Negrete-Yankelevich; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
30977796	The Type VI secretion system of Rhizobium etli Mim1 has a positive effect in symbiosis.	The Type VI secretion systems (T6SSs) allow bacteria to translocate effector proteins to other bacteria or to eukaryotic cells. However, little is known about the role of T6SS in endosymbiotic bacteria. In this work we describe the T6SS of Rhizobium etli Mim1, a bacteria able to effectively nodulate common beans. Structural genes and those encoding possible effectors have been identified in a 28-gene DNA region of R. etli Mim1 pRetMIM1f plasmid. Immunodetection of Hcp protein, a conserved key structural component of T6SS systems, indicates that this secretion system is active at high cell densities, in the presence of root exudates, and in bean nodules. Rhizobium etli mutants affected in T6SS structural genes produced plants with lower dry weight and smaller nodules than the wild-type strain, indicating for the first time that the T6SS plays a positive role in Rhizobium-legume symbiosis.	2019 05	Salinero-Lanzarote, Alvaro; Salinero-Lanzarote, A; Salinero-Lanzarote; Pacheco-Moreno, Alba; Pacheco-Moreno, A; Pacheco-Moreno; Domingo-Serrano, Lucía; Domingo-Serrano, L; Domingo-Serrano; Durán, David; Durán, D; Durán; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Albareda, Marta; Albareda, M; Albareda; Palacios, José Manuel; Palacios, JM; Palacios; Rey, Luis; Rey, L; Rey	FEMS Microbiol Ecol
31114559	Phylogenomic <i>Rhizobium</i> Species Are Structured by a Continuum of Diversity and Genomic Clusters.	The bacterial genus <i>Rhizobium</i> comprises diverse symbiotic nitrogen-fixing species associated with the roots of plants in the Leguminosae family. Multiple genomic clusters defined by whole genome comparisons occur within <i>Rhizobium</i>, but their equivalence to species is controversial. In this study we investigated such genomic clusters to ascertain their significance in a species phylogeny context. Phylogenomic inferences based on complete sets of ribosomal proteins and stringent core genome markers revealed the main lineages of <i>Rhizobium</i>. The clades corresponding to <i>R. etli</i> and <i>R. leguminosarum</i> species show several genomic clusters with average genomic nucleotide identities (ANI > 95%), and a continuum of divergent strains, respectively. They were found to be inversely correlated with the genetic distance estimated from concatenated ribosomal proteins. We uncovered evidence of a <i>Rhizobium</i> pangenome that was greatly expanded, both in its chromosomes and plasmids. Despite the variability of extra-chromosomal elements, our genomic comparisons revealed only a few chromid and plasmid families. The presence/absence profile of genes in the complete <i>Rhizobium</i> genomes agreed with the phylogenomic pattern of species divergence. Symbiotic genes were distributed according to the principal phylogenomic <i>Rhizobium</i> clades but did not resolve genome clusters within the clades. We distinguished some types of symbiotic plasmids within <i>Rhizobium</i> that displayed different rates of synonymous nucleotide substitutions in comparison to chromosomal genes. Symbiotic plasmids may have been repeatedly transferred horizontally between strains and species, in the process displacing and substituting pre-existing symbiotic plasmids. In summary, the results indicate that <i>Rhizobium</i> genomic clusters, as defined by whole genomic identities, might be part of a continuous process of evolutionary divergence that includes the core and the extrachromosomal elements leading to species formation.	2019	González, Víctor; González, V; González; Santamaría, Rosa Isela; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Pérez-Carrascal, Olga María; Pérez-Carrascal, OM; Pérez-Carrascal; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Juárez, Soledad; Juárez, S; Juárez; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; Cevallos, Miguel Ángel; Cevallos, MÁ; Cevallos; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero	Front Microbiol
31086743	Transcriptional analysis reveals the metabolic state of <i>Burkholderia zhejiangensis</i> CEIB S4-3 during methyl parathion degradation.	<i>Burkholderia zhejiangensis</i> CEIB S4-3 has the ability to degrade methyl parathion (MP) and its main hydrolysis byproduct <i>p</i>-nitrophenol (PNP). According to genomic data, several genes related with metabolism of MP and PNP were identified in this strain. However, the metabolic state of the strain during the MP degradation has not been evaluated. In the present study, we analyzed gene expression changes during MP hydrolysis and PNP degradation through a transcriptomic approach. The transcriptional analysis revealed differential changes in the expression of genes involved in important cellular processes, such as energy production and conversion, transcription, amino acid transport and metabolism, translation, ribosomal structure and biogenesis, among others. Transcriptomic data also exhibited the overexpression of both PNP-catabolic gene clusters (<i>pnpABA'E1E2FDC</i> and <i>pnpE1E2FDC</i>) present in the strain. We found and validated by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction the expression of the <i>methyl parathion degrading</i> gene, as well as the genes responsible for PNP degradation contained in two clusters. This proves the MP degradation pathway by the strain tested in this work. The exposure to PNP activates, in the first instance, the expression of the transcriptional regulators multiple antibiotic resistance regulator and Isocitrate Lyase Regulator (IclR), which are important in the regulation of genes from aromatic compound catabolism, as well as the expression of genes that encode transporters, permeases, efflux pumps, and porins related to the resistance to multidrugs and other xenobiotics. In the presence of the pesticide, 997 differentially expressed genes grouped in 104 metabolic pathways were observed. This report is the first to describe the transcriptomic analysis of a strain of <i>B. zhejiangensis</i> during the biodegradation of PNP.	2019	Castrejón-Godínez, María Luisa; Castrejón-Godínez, ML; Castrejón-Godínez; Ortiz-Hernández, Ma Laura; Ortiz-Hernández, ML; Ortiz-Hernández; Salazar, Emmanuel; Salazar, E; Salazar; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Mussali-Galante, Patricia; Mussali-Galante, P; Mussali-Galante; Tovar-Sánchez, Efraín; Tovar-Sánchez, E; Tovar-Sánchez; Sánchez-Salinas, Enrique; Sánchez-Salinas, E; Sánchez-Salinas; Rodríguez, Alexis; Rodríguez, A; Rodríguez	PeerJ
31057566	Intra and Extracellular Journey of the Phytohormone Salicylic Acid.	Salicylic acid (SA) is a plant hormone that has been described to play an essential role in the activation and regulation of multiple responses to biotic and to abiotic stresses. In particular, during plant-microbe interactions, as part of the defense mechanisms, SA is initially accumulated at the local infected tissue and then spread all over the plant to induce systemic acquired resistance at non-infected distal parts of the plant. SA can be produced by either the phenylalanine or isochorismate biosynthetic pathways. The first, takes place in the cytosol, while the second occurs in the chloroplasts. Once synthesized, free SA levels are regulated by a number of chemical modifications that produce inactive forms, including glycosylation, methylation and hydroxylation to dihydroxybenzoic acids. Glycosylated SA is stored in the vacuole, until required to activate SA-triggered responses. All this information suggests that SA levels are under a strict control, including its intra and extracellular movement that should be coordinated by the action of transporters. However, our knowledge on this matter is still very limited. In this review, we describe the most significant efforts made to date to identify the molecular mechanisms involved in SA transport throughout the plant. Additionally, we propose new alternatives that might help to understand the journey of this important phytohormone in the future.	2019	Maruri-López, Israel; Maruri-López, I; Maruri-López; Aviles-Baltazar, Norma Yaniri; Aviles-Baltazar, NY; Aviles-Baltazar; Buchala, Antony; Buchala, A; Buchala; Serrano, Mario; Serrano, M; Serrano	Front Plant Sci
30991941	Tracing the phylogenetic history of the Crl regulon through the Bacteria and Archaea genomes.	Crl, identified for curli production, is a small transcription factor that stimulates the association of the σ<sup>S</sup> factor (RpoS) with the RNA polymerase core through direct and specific interactions, increasing the transcription rate of genes during the transition from exponential to stationary phase at low temperatures, using indole as an effector molecule. The lack of a comprehensive collection of information on the Crl regulon makes it difficult to identify a dominant function of Crl and to generate any hypotheses concerning its taxonomical distribution in archaeal and bacterial organisms.	2019 Apr	Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda; Sánchez-Pérez, M; Sánchez-Pérez, M; Sánchez-Pérez; Velázquez-Ramírez, D A; Velázquez-Ramírez, DA; Velázquez-Ramírez; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	BMC Genomics
30586650	Analyzing the functional divergence of Slo1 and Slo3 channel subfamilies.	Slo1 and Slo3 encode close paralogues of the Slo potassium (K<sup>+</sup>) channels family. Despite their evolutionary relatedness, Slo1 and Slo3 channels show marked functional differences and evolutionary dynamics. Whereas Slo1 is a highly conserved and widely expressed channel, Slo3 is a rapidly evolving channel restricted to sperm. However, the molecular mechanisms behind the structural-functional differences of Slo1 and Slo3 channels are unknown. In this study, we explored the functional divergence of Slo1 and Slo3 subfamilies in vertebrates and examined the structure-function relationships of our predictions using experimental data. We found that ∼25% of sites between Slo1 and Slo3 underwent altered functional constraints, affecting some residues with important roles in Slo1 channel gating. Because functional divergence was principally generated by accelerated evolution of Slo3 after gene duplication, we explored selective forces behind Slo3 diversification. We observed that Slo3 subjected was principally subjected to relaxation of purifying selection, but we also identified several sites evolving under positive selection in the cytosolic domain of this channel . Concerning Slo1, this channel presented strong purifying selection. Whether residues evolving under different selection in Slo1 and Slo3 are responsible for functional differences observed between these channels, as well as among Slo3 orthologs, remains to be established.	2019 04	Vicens, Alberto; Vicens, A; Vicens; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Arenas, Miguel; Arenas, M; Arenas; Treviño, Claudia L; Treviño, CL; Treviño	Mol Phylogenet Evol
30738957	Immune checkpoints and the regulation of tolerogenicity in dendritic cells: Implications for autoimmunity and immunotherapy.	The immune system is responsible for defending the host from a large variety of potential pathogens, while simultaneously avoiding immune reactivity towards self-components. Self-tolerance has to be tightly maintained throughout several central and peripheral processes; immune checkpoints are imperative for regulating the immunity/tolerance balance. Dendritic cells (DCs) are specialized cells that capture antigens, and either activate or inhibit antigen-specific T cells. Therefore, they play a key role at inducing and maintaining immune tolerance. DCs that suppress the immune response have been called tolerogenic dendritic cells (tolDCs). Given their potential as a therapy to prevent transplant rejection and autoimmune damage, several strategies are under development to generate tolDCs, in order to avoid activation and expansion of self-reactive T cells. In this article, we summarize the current knowledge relative to the main features of tolDCs, their mechanisms of action and their therapeutic use for autoimmune diseases. Based on the literature reviewed, autologous antigen-specific tolDCs might constitute a promising strategy to suppress autoreactive T cells and reduce detrimental inflammatory processes.	2019 Apr	Funes, Samanta C; Funes, SC; Funes; Manrique de Lara, Amaranta; Manrique de Lara, A; Manrique de Lara; Altamirano-Lagos, María J; Altamirano-Lagos, MJ; Altamirano-Lagos; Mackern-Oberti, Juan P; Mackern-Oberti, JP; Mackern-Oberti; Escobar-Vera, Jorge; Escobar-Vera, J; Escobar-Vera; Kalergis, Alexis M; Kalergis, AM; Kalergis	Autoimmun Rev
30520095	Molecular detection of Bifidobacterium spp. in faeces of black howler monkeys (Alouatta pigra).	Bifidobacterium genus are considered to be beneficial bacteria for their hosts; however, knowledge about the specific species that are part of the gut microbiome of howler monkeys is scarce. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a useful technique for the identification of non-cultivable or difficult to grow bacterial species. With the goal of detecting species of the genus Bifidobacterium in black howler monkeys, we used PCR on DNA derived from faecal samples.	2019 04	Hernández-Rodríguez, Dolores; Hernández-Rodríguez, D; Hernández-Rodríguez; Vásquez-Aguilar, Antonio Acini; Vásquez-Aguilar, AA; Vásquez-Aguilar; Serio-Silva, Juan Carlos; Serio-Silva, JC; Serio-Silva; Rebollar, Eria Alaide; Rebollar, EA; Rebollar; Azaola-Espinosa, Alejandro; Azaola-Espinosa, A; Azaola-Espinosa	J Med Primatol
31062028	Polyamine biosynthesis and biological roles in rhizobia.	Polyamines are ubiquitous molecules containing two or more amino groups that fulfill varied and often essential physiological and regulatory roles in all organisms. In the symbiotic nitrogen-fixing bacteria known as rhizobia, putrescine and homospermidine are invariably produced while spermidine and norspermidine synthesis appears to be restricted to the alfalfa microsymbiont Sinorhizobium meliloti. Studies with rhizobial mutants deficient in the synthesis of one or more polyamines have shown that these compounds are important for growth, stress resistance, motility, exopolysaccharide production and biofilm formation. In this review, we describe these studies and examine how polyamines are synthesized and regulated in rhizobia.	2019 04	Becerra-Rivera, Victor A; Becerra-Rivera, VA; Becerra-Rivera; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn	FEMS Microbiol Lett
31323081	The chloroplast genome of the desiccation-tolerant moss Pseudocrossidium replicatum (Taylor) R.H. Zander.	Mosses in conjunction with hornworts and liverworts are collectively referred to as bryophytes. These seedless, nonvascular plants are the closest extant relatives of early terrestrial plants and their study is essential to understand the evolutionary first steps of land plants. Here we report the complete chloroplast (cp) genome sequence of Pseudocrossidium replicatum, a moss belonging to the Pottiaceae family that is common in the central highlands of Mexico, in South America, in southern USA, and in Kenia. The cp genome (plastome) of P. replicatum is 123,512 bp in size, comprising inverted repeats of 9,886 bp and single-copy regions of 85,146 bp (LSC) and 18,594 bp (SSC). The plastome encodes 82 different proteins, 31 different tRNAs, and 4 different rRNAs. Phylogenetic analysis using 16 cp protein-coding genes demonstrated that P. replicatum is closely related to Syntrichia ruralis, and the most basal mosses are Takakia lepidozioides followed by Sphagnum palustre. Our analysis indicates that during the evolution of the mosses' plastome, eight genes were lost. The complete plastome sequence reported here can be useful in evolutionary and population genetics.	2019 Apr-Jun	Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Guerrero, Gabriela; Guerrero, G; Guerrero; Ríos, Selma; Ríos, S; Ríos; Arroyo, Analilia; Arroyo, A; Arroyo; Villalobos, Miguel Angel; Villalobos, MA; Villalobos; Porta, Helena; Porta, H; Porta	Genet Mol Biol
30967846	Bacterial Diversity and Population Dynamics During the Fermentation of Palm Wine From Guerrero Mexico.	Palm wine is obtained by fermentation of palm tree sap. In the Pacific coast of Mexico, palm wine is called Tuba and it is consumed as a traditional fermented beverage. Tuba has empirical applications such as an auxiliary in gastrointestinal diseases and a good source of nutrients. In the present study, a next-generation sequencing of the V3-V4 regions of the 16S rRNA gene was employed to analyze bacterial diversity and population dynamics during the fermentation process of Tuba, both in laboratory controlled conditions and in commercial samples from local vendors. Taxonomic identification showed that <i>Fructobacillus</i> was the main genus in all the samples, following by <i>Leuconostoc</i>, <i>Gluconacetobacter</i>, <i>Sphingomonas</i>, and <i>Vibrio</i>. Alpha diversity analysis demonstrated variability between all the samples. Beta diversity clustered the bacterial population according to the collection origin of the sample. Metabolic functional profile inference showed that the members of the bacterial communities may present the vitamin, antibiotic and antioxidant biosynthesis genes. Additionally, we further investigated the correlation between the predominant genera and some composition parameters of this beverage. This study provides the basis of the bacterial community composition and functionality of the fermented beverage.	2019	Astudillo-Melgar, Fernando; Astudillo-Melgar, F; Astudillo-Melgar; Ochoa-Leyva, Adrián; Ochoa-Leyva, A; Ochoa-Leyva; Utrilla, José; Utrilla, J; Utrilla; Huerta-Beristain, Gerardo; Huerta-Beristain, G; Huerta-Beristain	Front Microbiol
30738581	Evidence for in vivo interactions between dehydrins and the aquaporin AtPIP2B.	Plants have developed mechanisms that allow them to tolerate different abiotic stresses. Among these mechanisms, the accumulation of specific proteins such as dehydrins (DHNs) and aquaporins (AQPs) can protect other proteins from damage during dehydration and may allow the control of water loss, respectively. Although both types of proteins are involved in plant protection against dehydration stress, a direct interaction between them has not been explored. A previous screen to identify potential OpsDHN1 protein interactions revealed an aquaporin as a possible candidate. Here, we used the Bimolecular Fluorescence Complementation (BiFC) approach to investigate the direct interaction of the cactus OpsDHN1 protein with the Arabidopsis plasma membrane PIP family aquaporin AtPIP2B (At2G37170). Since AtPIP2B is a membrane protein and OpsDHN1 is a cytosolic protein that may be peripherally associated with membranes, we propose that OpsDHN1/AtPIP2B interaction takes place at cellular membranes. Furthermore, we also demonstrate the interaction of AtPIP2B with the three Arabidopsis dehydrins COR47 (AT1G20440), ERD10 (At1g20450), and RAB18 (At5g66400).	2019 03	Hernández-Sánchez, Itzell Eurídice; Hernández-Sánchez, IE; Hernández-Sánchez; Maruri-López, Israel; Maruri-López, I; Maruri-López; Molphe-Balch, Eugenio Pérez; Molphe-Balch, EP; Molphe-Balch; Becerra-Flora, Alicia; Becerra-Flora, A; Becerra-Flora; Jaimes-Miranda, Fabiola; Jaimes-Miranda, F; Jaimes-Miranda; Jiménez-Bremont, Juan F; Jiménez-Bremont, JF; Jiménez-Bremont	Biochem Biophys Res Commun
30936856	Oxygen Reductases in Alphaproteobacterial Genomes: Physiological Evolution From Low to High Oxygen Environments.	Oxygen reducing terminal oxidases differ with respect to their subunit composition, heme groups, operon structure, and affinity for O<sub>2</sub>. Six families of terminal oxidases are currently recognized, all of which occur in alphaproteobacterial genomes, two of which are also present in mitochondria. Many alphaproteobacteria encode several different terminal oxidases, likely reflecting ecological versatility with respect to oxygen levels. Terminal oxidase evolution likely started with the advent of O<sub>2</sub> roughly 2.4 billion years ago and terminal oxidases diversified in the Proterozoic, during which oxygen levels remained low, around the Pasteur point (ca. 2 μM O<sub>2</sub>). Among the alphaproteobacterial genomes surveyed, those from members of the Rhodospirillaceae reveal the greatest diversity in oxygen reductases. Some harbor all six terminal oxidase types, in addition to many soluble enzymes typical of anaerobic fermentations in mitochondria and hydrogenosomes of eukaryotes. Recent data have it that O<sub>2</sub> levels increased to current values (21% v/v or ca. 250 μM) only about 430 million years ago. Ecological adaptation brought forth different lineages of alphaproteobacteria and different lineages of eukaryotes that have undergone evolutionary specialization to high oxygen, low oxygen, and anaerobic habitats. Some have remained facultative anaerobes that are able to generate ATP with or without the help of oxygen and represent physiological links to the ancient proteobacterial lineage at the origin of mitochondria and eukaryotes. Our analysis reveals that the genomes of alphaproteobacteria appear to retain signatures of ancient transitions in aerobic metabolism, findings that are relevant to mitochondrial evolution in eukaryotes as well.	2019	Degli Esposti, Mauro; Degli Esposti, M; Degli Esposti; Mentel, Marek; Mentel, M; Mentel; Martin, William; Martin, W; Martin; Sousa, Filipa L; Sousa, FL; Sousa	Front Microbiol
30842463	Evolutionary constraints on the complexity of genetic regulatory networks allow predictions of the total number of genetic interactions.	Genetic regulatory networks (GRNs) have been widely studied, yet there is a lack of understanding with regards to the final size and properties of these networks, mainly due to no network currently being complete. In this study, we analyzed the distribution of GRN structural properties across a large set of distinct prokaryotic organisms and found a set of constrained characteristics such as network density and number of regulators. Our results allowed us to estimate the number of interactions that complete networks would have, a valuable insight that could aid in the daunting task of network curation, prediction, and validation. Using state-of-the-art statistical approaches, we also provided new evidence to settle a previously stated controversy that raised the possibility of complete biological networks being random and therefore attributing the observed scale-free properties to an artifact emerging from the sampling process during network discovery. Furthermore, we identified a set of properties that enabled us to assess the consistency of the connectivity distribution for various GRNs against different alternative statistical distributions. Our results favor the hypothesis that highly connected nodes (hubs) are not a consequence of network incompleteness. Finally, an interaction coverage computed for the GRNs as a proxy for completeness revealed that high-throughput based reconstructions of GRNs could yield biased networks with a low average clustering coefficient, showing that classical targeted discovery of interactions is still needed.	2019 03	Campos, Adrian I; Campos, AI; Campos; Freyre-González, Julio A; Freyre-González, JA; Freyre-González	Sci Rep
30778181	Community richness of amphibian skin bacteria correlates with bioclimate at the global scale.	Animal-associated microbiomes are integral to host health, yet key biotic and abiotic factors that shape host-associated microbial communities at the global scale remain poorly understood. We investigated global patterns in amphibian skin bacterial communities, incorporating samples from 2,349 individuals representing 205 amphibian species across a broad biogeographic range. We analysed how biotic and abiotic factors correlate with skin microbial communities using multiple statistical approaches. Global amphibian skin bacterial richness was consistently correlated with temperature-associated factors. We found more diverse skin microbiomes in environments with colder winters and less stable thermal conditions compared with environments with warm winters and less annual temperature variation. We used bioinformatically predicted bacterial growth rates, dormancy genes and antibiotic synthesis genes, as well as inferred bacterial thermal growth optima to propose mechanistic hypotheses that may explain the observed patterns. We conclude that temporal and spatial characteristics of the host's macro-environment mediate microbial diversity.	2019 03	Kueneman, Jordan G; Kueneman, JG; Kueneman; Bletz, Molly C; Bletz, MC; Bletz; McKenzie, Valerie J; McKenzie, VJ; McKenzie; Becker, C Guilherme; Becker, CG; Becker; Joseph, Maxwell B; Joseph, MB; Joseph; Abarca, Juan G; Abarca, JG; Abarca; Archer, Holly; Archer, H; Archer; Arellano, Ana Lisette; Arellano, AL; Arellano; Bataille, Arnaud; Bataille, A; Bataille; Becker, Matthew; Becker, M; Becker; Belden, Lisa K; Belden, LK; Belden; Crottini, Angelica; Crottini, A; Crottini; Geffers, Robert; Geffers, R; Geffers; Haddad, Célio F B; Haddad, CFB; Haddad; Harris, Reid N; Harris, RN; Harris; Holden, Whitney M; Holden, WM; Holden; Hughey, Myra; Hughey, M; Hughey; Jarek, Michael; Jarek, M; Jarek; Kearns, Patrick J; Kearns, PJ; Kearns; Kerby, Jacob L; Kerby, JL; Kerby; Kielgast, Jos; Kielgast, J; Kielgast; Kurabayashi, Atsushi; Kurabayashi, A; Kurabayashi; Longo, Ana V; Longo, AV; Longo; Loudon, Andrew; Loudon, A; Loudon; Medina, Daniel; Medina, D; Medina; Nuñez, José J; Nuñez, JJ; Nuñez; Perl, R G Bina; Perl, RGB; Perl; Pinto-Tomás, Adrián; Pinto-Tomás, A; Pinto-Tomás; Rabemananjara, Falitiana C E; Rabemananjara, FCE; Rabemananjara; Rebollar, Eria A; Rebollar, EA; Rebollar; Rodríguez, Ariel; Rodríguez, A; Rodríguez; Rollins-Smith, Louise; Rollins-Smith, L; Rollins-Smith; Stevenson, Robert; Stevenson, R; Stevenson; Tebbe, Christoph C; Tebbe, CC; Tebbe; Vargas Asensio, Gabriel; Vargas Asensio, G; Vargas Asensio; Waldman, Bruce; Waldman, B; Waldman; Walke, Jenifer B; Walke, JB; Walke; Whitfield, Steven M; Whitfield, SM; Whitfield; Zamudio, Kelly R; Zamudio, KR; Zamudio; Zúñiga Chaves, Ibrahim; Zúñiga Chaves, I; Zúñiga Chaves; Woodhams, Douglas C; Woodhams, DC; Woodhams; Vences, Miguel; Vences, M; Vences	Nat Ecol Evol
30137210	MCO: towards an ontology and unified vocabulary for a framework-based annotation of microbial growth conditions.	A major component in increasing our understanding of the biology of an organism is the mapping of its genotypic potential into its phenotypic expression profiles. This mapping is executed by the machinery of gene regulation, which is essentially studied by changes in growth conditions. Although many efforts have been made to systematize the annotation of experimental conditions in microbiology, the available annotations are not based on a consistent and controlled vocabulary, making difficult the identification of biologically meaningful comparisons of knowledge derived from different experiments or laboratories.	2019 03	Tierrafría, V H; Tierrafría, VH; Tierrafría; Mejía-Almonte, C; Mejía-Almonte, C; Mejía-Almonte; Camacho-Zaragoza, J M; Camacho-Zaragoza, JM; Camacho-Zaragoza; Salgado, H; Salgado, H; Salgado; Alquicira, K; Alquicira, K; Alquicira; Ishida, C; Ishida, C; Ishida; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Bioinformatics
30686564	Maternal Immunization Confers Protection to the Offspring against an Attaching and Effacing Pathogen through Delivery of IgG in Breast Milk.	Owing to immature immune systems and impaired colonization resistance mediated by the microbiota, infants are more susceptible to enteric infections. Maternal antibodies can provide immunity, with maternal vaccination offering a protective strategy. We find that oral infection of adult females with the enteric pathogen Citrobacter rodentium protects dams and offspring against oral challenge. Parenteral immunization of dams with heat-inactivated C. rodentium reduces pathogen loads and mortality in offspring but not mothers. IgG, but not IgA or IgM, transferred through breast milk to the intestinal lumen of suckling offspring, coats the pathogen and reduces intestinal colonization. Protective IgG largely recognizes virulence factors encoded within the locus of enterocyte effacement (LEE) pathogenicity island, including the adhesin Intimin and T3SS filament EspA, which are major antigens conferring protection. Thus, pathogen-specific IgG in breast milk induced during maternal infection or immunization protects neonates against infection with an attaching and effacing pathogen.	2019 02	Caballero-Flores, Gustavo; Caballero-Flores, G; Caballero-Flores; Sakamoto, Kei; Sakamoto, K; Sakamoto; Zeng, Melody Y; Zeng, MY; Zeng; Wang, Yaqiu; Wang, Y; Wang; Hakim, Jill; Hakim, J; Hakim; Matus-Acuña, Violeta; Matus-Acuña, V; Matus-Acuña; Inohara, Naohiro; Inohara, N; Inohara; Núñez, Gabriel; Núñez, G; Núñez	Cell Host Microbe
30753218	Potential risk of Batrachochytrium salamandrivorans in Mexico.	The recent decline in populations of European salamanders caused by the chytrid fungus Batrachochytrium salamandrivorans (Bsal) has generated worldwide concern, as it is a major threat to amphibians. Evaluation of the areas most suitable for the establishment of Bsal combined with analysis of the distribution of salamander species could be used to generate and implement biosecurity measures and protect biodiversity at sites with high salamander diversity. In this study, we identified the areas most suitable for the establishment of Bsal in Mexico. Mexico has the second-highest salamander species diversity in the world; thus, we identified areas moderately to highly suitable for the establishment of Bsal with high salamander diversity as potential hotspots for surveillance. Central and Southern Mexico were identified as high-risk zones, with 13 hotspots where 30% of Mexican salamander species occur, including range-restricted species and endangered species. We propose that these hotspots should be thoroughly monitored for the presence of Bsal to prevent the spread of the pathogen if it is introduced to the country.	2019	Basanta, M Delia; Basanta, MD; Basanta; Rebollar, Eria A; Rebollar, EA; Rebollar; Parra-Olea, Gabriela; Parra-Olea, G; Parra-Olea	PLoS One
30834387	Genome Sequence of <i>Rhizobium jaguaris</i> CCGE525<sup>T</sup>, a Strain Isolated from <i>Calliandra grandiflora</i> Nodules from a Rain Forest in Mexico.	We present the genome sequence of Rhizobium jaguaris CCGE525<sup>T</sup>, a nitrogen-fixing bacterium isolated from nodules of Calliandra grandiflora. CCGE525<sup>T</sup> belongs to Rhizobium tropici group A, represents the symbiovar calliandrae, and forms nitrogen-fixing nodules in Phaseolus vulgaris. Genome-based metrics and phylogenomic approaches support Rhizobium jaguaris as a novel species.	2019 Feb	Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis E; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Guerrero, Gabriela; Guerrero, G; Guerrero; Rogel-Hernández, Marco A; Rogel-Hernández, MA; Rogel-Hernández; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Microbiol Resour Announc
30704413	Genome analysis of Salmonella enterica subsp. diarizonae isolates from invasive human infections reveals enrichment of virulence-related functions in lineage ST1256.	Salmonella enterica subsp. diarizonae (IIIb) is frequently isolated from the environment, cold-blooded reptiles, sheep and humans; however only a few studies describe the isolation of this subspecies from invasive human infections. The factors contributing to this unusual behavior are currently unknown.	2019 Jan	Giner-Lamia, Joaquín; Giner-Lamia, J; Giner-Lamia; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Betancor, Laura; Betancor, L; Betancor; Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva; Bisio, Julieta; Bisio, J; Bisio; Soleto, Lorena; Soleto, L; Soleto; Chabalgoity, José A; Chabalgoity, JA; Chabalgoity; Puente, José Luis; Puente, JL; Puente; Salmonella CYTED Network; García-Del Portillo, Francisco; García-Del Portillo, F; García-Del Portillo	BMC Genomics
30691411	First step toward gene expression data integration: transcriptomic data acquisition with COMMAND>_.	Exploring cellular responses to stimuli using extensive gene expression profiles has become a routine procedure performed on a daily basis. Raw and processed data from these studies are available on public databases but the opportunity to fully exploit such rich datasets is limited due to the large heterogeneity of data formats. In recent years, several approaches have been proposed to effectively integrate gene expression data for analysis and exploration at a broader level. Despite the different goals and approaches towards gene expression data integration, the first step is common to any proposed method: data acquisition. Although it is seemingly straightforward to extract valuable information from a set of downloaded files, things can rapidly get complicated, especially as the number of experiments grows. Transcriptomic datasets are deposited in public databases with little regard to data format and thus retrieving raw data might become a challenging task. While for RNA-seq experiments such problem is partially mitigated by the fact that raw reads are generally available on databases such as the NCBI SRA, for microarray experiments standards are not equally well established, or enforced during submission, and thus a multitude of data formats has emerged.	2019 Jan	Moretto, Marco; Moretto, M; Moretto; Sonego, Paolo; Sonego, P; Sonego; Villaseñor-Altamirano, Ana B; Villaseñor-Altamirano, AB; Villaseñor-Altamirano; Engelen, Kristof; Engelen, K; Engelen	BMC Bioinformatics
30625167	Cophylogenetic analysis suggests cospeciation between the Scorpion Mycoplasma Clade symbionts and their hosts.	Scorpions are predator arachnids of ancient origin and worldwide distribution. Two scorpion species, Vaejovis smithi and Centruroides limpidus, were found to harbor two different Mollicutes phylotypes: a Scorpion Mycoplasma Clade (SMC) and Scorpion Group 1 (SG1). Here we investigated, using a targeted gene sequencing strategy, whether these Mollicutes were present in 23 scorpion morphospecies belonging to the Vaejovidae, Carboctonidae, Euscorpiidae, Diplocentridae, and Buthidae families. Our results revealed that SMC is found in a species-specific association with Vaejovidae and Buthidae, whereas SG1 is uniquely found in Vaejovidae. SMC and SG1 co-occur only in Vaejovis smithi where 43% of the individuals host both phylotypes. A phylogenetic analysis of Mollicutes 16S rRNA showed that SMC and SG1 constitute well-delineated phylotypes. Additionally, we found that SMC and scorpion phylogenies are significantly congruent, supporting the observation that a cospeciation process may have occurred. This study highlights the phylogenetic diversity of the scorpion associated Mollicutes through different species revealing a possible cospeciation pattern.	2019	Bolaños, Luis M; Bolaños, LM; Bolaños; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Manrique de Lara, Amaranta; Manrique de Lara, A; Manrique de Lara; Migueles-Lozano, Analí; Migueles-Lozano, A; Migueles-Lozano; Gil-Aguillón, Citlali; Gil-Aguillón, C; Gil-Aguillón; Mateo-Estrada, Valeria; Mateo-Estrada, V; Mateo-Estrada; González-Serrano, Francisco; González-Serrano, F; González-Serrano; Santibáñez-López, Carlos E; Santibáñez-López, CE; Santibáñez-López; García-Santibáñez, Tonalli; García-Santibáñez, T; García-Santibáñez; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	PLoS One
30395280	RegulonDB v 10.5: tackling challenges to unify classic and high throughput knowledge of gene regulation in E. coli K-12.	RegulonDB, first published 20 years ago, is a comprehensive electronic resource about regulation of transcription initiation of Escherichia coli K-12 with decades of knowledge from classic molecular biology experiments, and recently also from high-throughput genomic methodologies. We curated the literature to keep RegulonDB up to date, and initiated curation of ChIP and gSELEX experiments. We estimate that current knowledge describes between 10% and 30% of the expected total number of transcription factor- gene regulatory interactions in E. coli. RegulonDB provides datasets for interactions for which there is no evidence that they affect expression, as well as expression datasets. We developed a proof of concept pipeline to merge binding and expression evidence to identify regulatory interactions. These datasets can be visualized in the RegulonDB JBrowse. We developed the Microbial Conditions Ontology with a controlled vocabulary for the minimal properties to reproduce an experiment, which contributes to integrate data from high throughput and classic literature. At a higher level of integration, we report Genetic Sensory-Response Units for 200 transcription factors, including their regulation at the metabolic level, and include summaries for 70 of them. Finally, we summarize our research with Natural language processing strategies to enhance our biocuration work.	2019 01	Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Sánchez-Pérez, Mishael; Sánchez-Pérez, M; Sánchez-Pérez; Gómez-Romero, Laura; Gómez-Romero, L; Gómez-Romero; Ledezma-Tejeida, Daniela; Ledezma-Tejeida, D; Ledezma-Tejeida; García-Sotelo, Jair Santiago; García-Sotelo, JS; García-Sotelo; Alquicira-Hernández, Kevin; Alquicira-Hernández, K; Alquicira-Hernández; Muñiz-Rascado, Luis José; Muñiz-Rascado, LJ; Muñiz-Rascado; Peña-Loredo, Pablo; Peña-Loredo, P; Peña-Loredo; Ishida-Gutiérrez, Cecilia; Ishida-Gutiérrez, C; Ishida-Gutiérrez; Velázquez-Ramírez, David A; Velázquez-Ramírez, DA; Velázquez-Ramírez; Del Moral-Chávez, Víctor; Del Moral-Chávez, V; Del Moral-Chávez; Bonavides-Martínez, César; Bonavides-Martínez, C; Bonavides-Martínez; Méndez-Cruz, Carlos-Francisco; Méndez-Cruz, CF; Méndez-Cruz; Galagan, James; Galagan, J; Galagan; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
30609847	Metatranscriptomic Analysis of the Bacterial Symbiont <i>Dactylopiibacterium carminicum</i> from the Carmine Cochineal <i>Dactylopius coccus</i> (Hemiptera: Coccoidea: Dactylopiidae).	The scale insect <i>Dactylopius coccus</i> produces high amounts of carminic acid, which has historically been used as a pigment by pre-Hispanic American cultures. Nowadays carmine is found in food, cosmetics, and textiles. Metagenomic approaches revealed that <i>Dactylopius</i> spp. cochineals contain two <i>Wolbachia</i> strains, a betaproteobacterium named <i>Candidatus</i> Dactylopiibacterium carminicum and <i>Spiroplasma</i>, in addition to different fungi. We describe here a transcriptomic analysis indicating that <i>Dactylopiibacterium</i> is metabolically active inside the insect host, and estimate that there are over twice as many <i>Dactylopiibacterium</i> cells in the hemolymph than in the gut, with even fewer in the ovary. Albeit scarce, the transcripts in the ovaries support the presence of <i>Dactylopiibacterium</i> in this tissue and a vertical mode of transmission. In the cochineal, <i>Dactylopiibacterium</i> may catabolize plant polysaccharides, and be active in carbon and nitrogen provisioning through its degradative activity and by fixing nitrogen. In most insects, nitrogen-fixing bacteria are found in the gut, but in this study they are shown to occur in the hemolymph, probably delivering essential amino acids and riboflavin to the host from nitrogen substrates derived from nitrogen fixation.	2019 Jan	Bustamante-Brito, Rafael; Bustamante-Brito, R; Bustamante-Brito; Vera-Ponce de León, Arturo; Vera-Ponce de León, A; Vera-Ponce de León; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Martínez-Romero, Julio César; Martínez-Romero, JC; Martínez-Romero; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Life (Basel)
31632421	Argonaute Proteins: Why Are They So Important for the Legume-Rhizobia Symbiosis?	Unlike most other land plants, legumes can fulfill their nitrogen needs through the establishment of symbioses with nitrogen-fixing soil bacteria (rhizobia). Through this symbiosis, fixed nitrogen is incorporated into the food chain. Because of this ecological relevance, the genetic mechanisms underlying the establishment of the legume-rhizobia symbiosis (LRS) have been extensively studied over the past decades. During this time, different types of regulators of this symbiosis have been discovered and characterized. A growing number of studies have demonstrated the participation of different types of small RNAs, including microRNAs, in the different stages of this symbiosis. The involvement of small RNAs also indicates that Argonaute (AGO) proteins participate in the regulation of the LRS. However, despite this obvious role, the relevance of AGO proteins in the LRS has been overlooked and understudied. Here, we discuss and hypothesize the likely participation of AGO proteins in the regulation of the different steps that enable the establishment of the LRS. We also briefly review and discuss whether rhizobial symbiosis induces DNA damages in the legume host. Understanding the different levels of LRS regulation could lead to the development of improved nitrogen fixation efficiency to enhance sustainable agriculture, thereby reducing dependence on inorganic fertilizers.	2019	Valdés-López, Oswaldo; Valdés-López, O; Valdés-López; Formey, Damien; Formey, D; Formey; Isidra-Arellano, Mariel C; Isidra-Arellano, MC; Isidra-Arellano; Reyero-Saavedra, Maria Del Rocio; Reyero-Saavedra, MDR; Reyero-Saavedra; Fernandez-Göbel, Tadeo F; Fernandez-Göbel, TF; Fernandez-Göbel; Sánchez-Correa, Maria Del Socorro; Sánchez-Correa, MDS; Sánchez-Correa	Front Plant Sci
31037804	Conjugative transfer between Rhizobium etli endosymbionts inside the root nodule.	Since the discovery that biological nitrogen fixation ensues in nodules resulting from the interaction of rhizobia with legumes, nodules were thought to be exclusive for hosting nitrogen-fixing and plant growth promoting bacteria. In this work, we uncover a novel function of nodules, as a niche permissive to acquisition of plasmids via conjugative transfer. We used Rhizobium etli CFN42, which nodulates Phaseolus vulgaris. The genome of R. etli CFN42 contains a chromosome and six plasmids. pRet42a is a conjugative plasmid regulated by Quorum-Sensing (QS), and pRet42d is the symbiotic plasmid. Here, using confocal microscopy and flow cytometry, we show that pRet42a transfers on the root's surface, and unexpectedly, inside the nodules. Conjugation still took place inside nodules, even when it was restricted on the plant surface by placing the QS traI regulator under the promoter of the nitrogenase gene, which is only expressed inside the nodules, or by inhibiting the QS transcriptional induction of transfer genes with a traM antiactivator on an unstable vector maintained on the plant surface and lost inside the nodules. These results conclusively confirm the occurrence of conjugation in these structures, defining them as a protected environment for bacterial diversification.	2019 Apr	Bañuelos-Vazquez, Luis Alfredo; Bañuelos-Vazquez, LA; Bañuelos-Vazquez; Torres Tejerizo, Gonzalo; Torres Tejerizo, G; Torres Tejerizo; Cervantes-De La Luz, Laura; Cervantes-De La Luz, L; Cervantes-De La Luz; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom	Environ Microbiol
30701503	Functional Analysis of Root microRNAs by a Constitutive Overexpression Approach in a Composite Plant System.	Agrobacterium-mediated transformation is a fast and efficient method for genome modification in plants. In this protocol, we apply this technique for the analysis of root microRNA functionality. The induction of hairy roots constitutively overexpressing a given microRNA precursor allows us, in a simple way, to modify the accumulation of specific mature microRNA and analyze the consequence of this alteration on a phenotype of interest. This method generates ready-to-phenotype "composite plants" with untransformed aerial part and microRNA-overexpressing root system, in about 20 days.	2019	Formey, Damien; Formey, D; Formey; Martín-Rodríguez, José Ángel; Martín-Rodríguez, JÁ; Martín-Rodríguez; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	Methods Mol Biol
31285584	Global phylogeography and ancient evolution of the widespread human gut virus crAssphage.	Microbiomes are vast communities of microorganisms and viruses that populate all natural ecosystems. Viruses have been considered to be the most variable component of microbiomes, as supported by virome surveys and examples of high genomic mosaicism. However, recent evidence suggests that the human gut virome is remarkably stable compared with that of other environments. Here, we investigate the origin, evolution and epidemiology of crAssphage, a widespread human gut virus. Through a global collaboration, we obtained DNA sequences of crAssphage from more than one-third of the world's countries and showed that the phylogeography of crAssphage is locally clustered within countries, cities and individuals. We also found fully colinear crAssphage-like genomes in both Old-World and New-World primates, suggesting that the association of crAssphage with primates may be millions of years old. Finally, by exploiting a large cohort of more than 1,000 individuals, we tested whether crAssphage is associated with bacterial taxonomic groups of the gut microbiome, diverse human health parameters and a wide range of dietary factors. We identified strong correlations with different clades of bacteria that are related to Bacteroidetes and weak associations with several diet categories, but no significant association with health or disease. We conclude that crAssphage is a benign cosmopolitan virus that may have coevolved with the human lineage and is an integral part of the normal human gut virome.	2019 10	Edwards, Robert A; Edwards, RA; Edwards; Vega, Alejandro A; Vega, AA; Vega; Norman, Holly M; Norman, HM; Norman; Ohaeri, Maria; Ohaeri, M; Ohaeri; Levi, Kyle; Levi, K; Levi; Dinsdale, Elizabeth A; Dinsdale, EA; Dinsdale; Cinek, Ondrej; Cinek, O; Cinek; Aziz, Ramy K; Aziz, RK; Aziz; McNair, Katelyn; McNair, K; McNair; Barr, Jeremy J; Barr, JJ; Barr; Bibby, Kyle; Bibby, K; Bibby; Brouns, Stan J J; Brouns, SJJ; Brouns; Cazares, Adrian; Cazares, A; Cazares; de Jonge, Patrick A; de Jonge, PA; de Jonge; Desnues, Christelle; Desnues, C; Desnues; Díaz Muñoz, Samuel L; Díaz Muñoz, SL; Díaz Muñoz; Fineran, Peter C; Fineran, PC; Fineran; Kurilshikov, Alexander; Kurilshikov, A; Kurilshikov; Lavigne, Rob; Lavigne, R; Lavigne; Mazankova, Karla; Mazankova, K; Mazankova; McCarthy, David T; McCarthy, DT; McCarthy; Nobrega, Franklin L; Nobrega, FL; Nobrega; Reyes Muñoz, Alejandro; Reyes Muñoz, A; Reyes Muñoz; Tapia, German; Tapia, G; Tapia; Trefault, Nicole; Trefault, N; Trefault; Tyakht, Alexander V; Tyakht, AV; Tyakht; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Wagemans, Jeroen; Wagemans, J; Wagemans; Zhernakova, Alexandra; Zhernakova, A; Zhernakova; Aarestrup, Frank M; Aarestrup, FM; Aarestrup; Ahmadov, Gunduz; Ahmadov, G; Ahmadov; Alassaf, Abeer; Alassaf, A; Alassaf; Anton, Josefa; Anton, J; Anton; Asangba, Abigail; Asangba, A; Asangba; Billings, Emma K; Billings, EK; Billings; Cantu, Vito Adrian; Cantu, VA; Cantu; Carlton, Jane M; Carlton, JM; Carlton; Cazares, Daniel; Cazares, D; Cazares; Cho, Gyu-Sung; Cho, GS; Cho; Condeff, Tess; Condeff, T; Condeff; Cortés, Pilar; Cortés, P; Cortés; Cranfield, Mike; Cranfield, M; Cranfield; Cuevas, Daniel A; Cuevas, DA; Cuevas; De la Iglesia, Rodrigo; De la Iglesia, R; De la Iglesia; Decewicz, Przemyslaw; Decewicz, P; Decewicz; Doane, Michael P; Doane, MP; Doane; Dominy, Nathaniel J; Dominy, NJ; Dominy; Dziewit, Lukasz; Dziewit, L; Dziewit; Elwasila, Bashir Mukhtar; Elwasila, BM; Elwasila; Eren, A Murat; Eren, AM; Eren; Franz, Charles; Franz, C; Franz; Fu, Jingyuan; Fu, J; Fu; Garcia-Aljaro, Cristina; Garcia-Aljaro, C; Garcia-Aljaro; Ghedin, Elodie; Ghedin, E; Ghedin; Gulino, Kristen M; Gulino, KM; Gulino; Haggerty, John M; Haggerty, JM; Haggerty; Head, Steven R; Head, SR; Head; Hendriksen, Rene S; Hendriksen, RS; Hendriksen; Hill, Colin; Hill, C; Hill; Hyöty, Heikki; Hyöty, H; Hyöty; Ilina, Elena N; Ilina, EN; Ilina; Irwin, Mitchell T; Irwin, MT; Irwin; Jeffries, Thomas C; Jeffries, TC; Jeffries; Jofre, Juan; Jofre, J; Jofre; Junge, Randall E; Junge, RE; Junge; Kelley, Scott T; Kelley, ST; Kelley; Khan Mirzaei, Mohammadali; Khan Mirzaei, M; Khan Mirzaei; Kowalewski, Martin; Kowalewski, M; Kowalewski; Kumaresan, Deepak; Kumaresan, D; Kumaresan; Leigh, Steven R; Leigh, SR; Leigh; Lipson, David; Lipson, D; Lipson; Lisitsyna, Eugenia S; Lisitsyna, ES; Lisitsyna; Llagostera, Montserrat; Llagostera, M; Llagostera; Maritz, Julia M; Maritz, JM; Maritz; Marr, Linsey C; Marr, LC; Marr; McCann, Angela; McCann, A; McCann; Molshanski-Mor, Shahar; Molshanski-Mor, S; Molshanski-Mor; Monteiro, Silvia; Monteiro, S; Monteiro; Moreira-Grez, Benjamin; Moreira-Grez, B; Moreira-Grez; Morris, Megan; Morris, M; Morris; Mugisha, Lawrence; Mugisha, L; Mugisha; Muniesa, Maite; Muniesa, M; Muniesa; Neve, Horst; Neve, H; Neve; Nguyen, Nam-Phuong; Nguyen, NP; Nguyen; Nigro, Olivia D; Nigro, OD; Nigro; Nilsson, Anders S; Nilsson, AS; Nilsson; O'Connell, Taylor; O'Connell, T; O'Connell; Odeh, Rasha; Odeh, R; Odeh; Oliver, Andrew; Oliver, A; Oliver; Piuri, Mariana; Piuri, M; Piuri; Prussin Ii, Aaron J; Prussin Ii, AJ; Prussin Ii; Qimron, Udi; Qimron, U; Qimron; Quan, Zhe-Xue; Quan, ZX; Quan; Rainetova, Petra; Rainetova, P; Rainetova; Ramírez-Rojas, Adán; Ramírez-Rojas, A; Ramírez-Rojas; Raya, Raul; Raya, R; Raya; Reasor, Kim; Reasor, K; Reasor; Rice, Gillian A O; Rice, GAO; Rice; Rossi, Alessandro; Rossi, A; Rossi; Santos, Ricardo; Santos, R; Santos; Shimashita, John; Shimashita, J; Shimashita; Stachler, Elyse N; Stachler, EN; Stachler; Stene, Lars C; Stene, LC; Stene; Strain, Ronan; Strain, R; Strain; Stumpf, Rebecca; Stumpf, R; Stumpf; Torres, Pedro J; Torres, PJ; Torres; Twaddle, Alan; Twaddle, A; Twaddle; Ugochi Ibekwe, MaryAnn; Ugochi Ibekwe, M; Ugochi Ibekwe; Villagra, Nicolás; Villagra, N; Villagra; Wandro, Stephen; Wandro, S; Wandro; White, Bryan; White, B; White; Whiteley, Andy; Whiteley, A; Whiteley; Whiteson, Katrine L; Whiteson, KL; Whiteson; Wijmenga, Cisca; Wijmenga, C; Wijmenga; Zambrano, Maria M; Zambrano, MM; Zambrano; Zschach, Henrike; Zschach, H; Zschach; Dutilh, Bas E; Dutilh, BE; Dutilh	Nat Microbiol
31667798	Identification of the symbiosis island of Bradyrhizobium paxllaeri LMTR 21<sup>T</sup>.	The complete symbiosis island (SI) of Bradyrhizobium paxllaeri LMTR 21<sup>T</sup>, a mutualistic symbiont of the legume Phaseolus lunatus, was identified and analyzed. The SI was 646 kb in size, had lower G+C content than the genome average, and encoded not only nodulation and nitrogen fixation functions but also those for hydrogen uptake, vitamin and phytohormone biosynthesis, molybdenum transport, nonribosomal peptide synthesis, and type III secretion. Additionally, two divergent nodA genes were encoded in the SI.	2020 Jun	Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Zúñiga-Dávila, Doris; Zúñiga-Dávila, D; Zúñiga-Dávila	Braz J Microbiol
30561303	Inaccurate Multilocus Sequence Typing of Acinetobacter baumannii.	Multilocus sequence typing has been useful for genotyping pathogens in surveillance and epidemiologic studies. However, it cannot reflect the true relationships of isolates for species with very dynamic genomes. Using a robust genome phylogeny, we demonstrated the limitations of this method for typing Acinetobacter baumannii.	2019 01	Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Graña-Miraglia, Lucía; Graña-Miraglia, L; Graña-Miraglia	Emerg Infect Dis
30454661	Isolation and characterization of endophytes from nodules of Mimosa pudica with biotechnological potential.	Legumes establish symbiotic relationships with different microorganisms, which could function as plant growth promotion microorganisms (PGPM). The finding of new PGPM strains is important to increase plant production avoiding or diminishing the use of industrial fertilizers. Thus, in this work we evaluated the plant growth promotion traits of ten strains isolated from Mimosa pudica root nodules. According to the 16S rDNA sequence, the microorganisms were identified as Enterobacter sp. and Serratia sp. To the best of our knowledge this is the first report describing and endophytic interaction between Mimosa pudica and Enterobacter sp. These strains have some plant growth promoting traits such as phosphate solubilization, auxin production and cellulase and chitinase activity. Strains identified as Serratia sp. inhibited the growth of the phytopathogenic fungi Fusarium sp., and Alternaria solani and the oomycete Phytophthora capsici. According to their biochemical characteristics, three strains were selected to test their plant growth promoting activity in a medium with an insoluble phosphate source. These bacteria show low specificity for their hosts as endophytes, since they were able to colonize two very different legumes: Phaseolus vulgaris and M. pudica. Seedlings of P. vulgaris were inoculated and grown for fifteen days. Enterobacter sp. NOD1 and NOD10, promoted growth as reflected by an increase in shoot height as well as an increase in the size and emergence of the first two trifolia. We could localize NOD5 as an endophyte in roots in P. vulgaris by transforming the strain with a Green Fluorescent Protein carrying plasmid. Experiments of co-inoculation with different Rhizobium etli strains allowed us to discard that NOD5 can fix nitrogen in the nodules formed by a R. etli Fix<sup>-</sup> strain. The isolates described in this work show biotechnological potential for plant growth promoting activity and production of indoleacetic acid and siderophores.	2019 Jan	Sánchez-Cruz, Ricardo; Sánchez-Cruz, R; Sánchez-Cruz; Tpia Vázquez, Irán; Tpia Vázquez, I; Tpia Vázquez; Batista-García, Ramón Alberto; Batista-García, RA; Batista-García; Méndez-Santiago, Erick Williams; Méndez-Santiago, EW; Méndez-Santiago; Sánchez-Carbente, María Del Rayo; Sánchez-Carbente, MDR; Sánchez-Carbente; Leija, Alfonso; Leija, A; Leija; Lira-Ruan, Verónica; Lira-Ruan, V; Lira-Ruan; Hernández, Gerogina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Wong-Villarreal, Arnoldo; Wong-Villarreal, A; Wong-Villarreal; Folch-Mallol, Jorge Luis; Folch-Mallol, JL; Folch-Mallol	Microbiol Res
30787915	Whole-Genome Sequences of Five <i>Acinetobacter baumannii</i> Strains From a Child With Leukemia M2.	<i>Acinetobacter baumannii</i> is an opportunistic pathogen and is one of the primary etiological agents of healthcare-associated infections (HAIs). <i>A. baumannii</i> infections are difficult to treat due to the intrinsic and acquired antibiotic resistance of strains of this bacterium, which frequently limits therapeutic options. In this study, five <i>A. baumannii</i> strains (810CP, 433H, 434H, 483H, and A-2), all of which were isolated from a child with leukemia M2, were characterized through antibiotic susceptibility profiling, the detection of genes encoding carbapenem hydrolyzing oxacillinases, pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE), multilocus sequence typing (MLST), adherence and invasion assays toward the A549 cell line, and the whole-genome sequence (WGS). The five strains showed Multidrug resistant (MDR) profiles and amplification of the <i>bla</i> <sub>OXA-23</sub> gene, belonging to ST758 and grouped into two PFGE clusters. WGS of 810CP revealed the presence of a circular chromosome and two small plasmids, pAba810CPa and pAba810CPb. Both plasmids carried genes encoding the Sp1TA system, although resistance genes were not identified. A gene-by-gene comparison analysis was performed among the <i>A. baumannii</i> strains isolated in this study and others <i>A</i>. <i>baumannii</i> ST758 strains (HIMFG and INCan), showing that 86% of genes were present in all analyzed strains. Interestingly, the 433H, 434H, and 483H strains varied by 8-10 single-nucleotide variants (SNVs), while the A2 and 810CP strains varied by 46 SNVs. Subsequently, an analysis using BacWGSTdb showed that all of our strains had the same resistance genes and were ST758. However, some variations were observed in relation to virulence genes, mainly in the 810CP strain. The genes involved in the synthesis of hepta-acylated lipooligosaccharides, the <i>pgaABCD</i> locus encoding poly-β-1-6-<i>N</i>-acetylglucosamine, the <i>ompA</i> gene, Csu pili, <i>bap</i>, the two-component system <i>bfms</i>/<i>bfmR</i>, a member of the phospholipase D family, and two iron-uptake systems were identified in our <i>A</i>. <i>baumannii</i> strains genome. The five <i>A. baumannii</i> strains isolated from the child were genetically different and showed important characteristics that promote survival in a hospital environment. The elucidation of their genomic sequences provides important information for understanding their epidemiology, antibiotic resistance, and putative virulence factors.	2019	Mancilla-Rojano, Jetsi; Mancilla-Rojano, J; Mancilla-Rojano; Castro-Jaimes, Semiramis; Castro-Jaimes, S; Castro-Jaimes; Ochoa, Sara A; Ochoa, SA; Ochoa; Bobadilla Del Valle, Miriam; Bobadilla Del Valle, M; Bobadilla Del Valle; Luna-Pineda, Victor M; Luna-Pineda, VM; Luna-Pineda; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Laris-González, Almudena; Laris-González, A; Laris-González; Arellano-Galindo, José; Arellano-Galindo, J; Arellano-Galindo; Parra-Ortega, Israel; Parra-Ortega, I; Parra-Ortega; Hernández-Castro, Rigoberto; Hernández-Castro, R; Hernández-Castro; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Xicohtencatl-Cortes, Juan; Xicohtencatl-Cortes, J; Xicohtencatl-Cortes; Cruz-Córdova, Ariadnna; Cruz-Córdova, A; Cruz-Córdova	Front Microbiol
30269496	Launching the C-HPP neXt-CP50 Pilot Project for Functional Characterization of Identified Proteins with No Known Function.	An important goal of the Human Proteome Organization (HUPO) Chromosome-centric Human Proteome Project (C-HPP) is to correctly define the number of canonical proteins encoded by their cognate open reading frames on each chromosome in the human genome. When identified with high confidence of protein evidence (PE), such proteins are termed PE1 proteins in the online database resource, neXtProt. However, proteins that have not been identified unequivocally at the protein level but that have other evidence suggestive of their existence (PE2-4) are termed missing proteins (MPs). The number of MPs has been reduced from 5511 in 2012 to 2186 in 2018 (neXtProt 2018-01-17 release). Although the annotation of the human proteome has made significant progress, the "parts list" alone does not inform function. Indeed, 1937 proteins representing ∼10% of the human proteome have no function either annotated from experimental characterization or predicted by homology to other proteins. Specifically, these 1937 "dark proteins" of the so-called dark proteome are composed of 1260 functionally uncharacterized but identified PE1 proteins, designated as uPE1, plus 677 MPs from categories PE2-PE4, which also have no known or predicted function and are termed uMPs. At the HUPO-2017 Annual Meeting, the C-HPP officially adopted the uPE1 pilot initiative, with 14 participating international teams later committing to demonstrate the feasibility of the functional characterization of large numbers of dark proteins (CP), starting first with 50 uPE1 proteins, in a stepwise chromosome-centric organizational manner. The second aim of the feasibility phase to characterize protein (CP) functions of 50 uPE1 proteins, termed the neXt-CP50 initiative, is to utilize a variety of approaches and workflows according to individual team expertise, interest, and resources so as to enable the C-HPP to recommend experimentally proven workflows to the proteome community within 3 years. The results from this pilot will not only be the cornerstone of a larger characterization initiative but also enhance understanding of the human proteome and integrated cellular networks for the discovery of new mechanisms of pathology, mechanistically informative biomarkers, and rational drug targets.	2018 12	Paik, Young-Ki; Paik, YK; Paik; Lane, Lydie; Lane, L; Lane; Kawamura, Takeshi; Kawamura, T; Kawamura; Chen, Yu-Ju; Chen, YJ; Chen; Cho, Je-Yoel; Cho, JY; Cho; LaBaer, Joshua; LaBaer, J; LaBaer; Yoo, Jong Shin; Yoo, JS; Yoo; Domont, Gilberto; Domont, G; Domont; Corrales, Fernando; Corrales, F; Corrales; Omenn, Gilbert S; Omenn, GS; Omenn; Archakov, Alexander; Archakov, A; Archakov; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Lui, Siqi; Lui, S; Lui; Salekdeh, Ghasem Hosseini; Salekdeh, GH; Salekdeh; Cho, Jin-Young; Cho, JY; Cho; Kim, Chae-Yeon; Kim, CY; Kim; Overall, Christopher M; Overall, CM; Overall	J Proteome Res
30284012	Analysis of differentially upregulated proteins in ptsHIcrr<sup>-</sup> and rppH<sup>-</sup> mutants in Escherichia coli during an adaptive laboratory evolution experiment.	The previous deletion of the cytoplasmic components of the phosphotransferase system (PTS) in Escherichia coli JM101 resulted in the PTS<sup>-</sup> derivative strain PB11 with severely impaired growth capability in glucose as the sole carbon source. Previous adaptive laboratory evolution (ALE) experiment led to select a fast-growing strain named PB12 from PB11. Comparative genome analysis of PB12 showed a chromosomal deletion, which result in the loss of several genes including rppH which codes for the RNA pyrophosphohydrolase RppH, involved in the preparation of hundreds of mRNAs for further degradation by RNase E. Previous inactivation of rppH in PB11 (PB11rppH<sup>-</sup>) improved significantly its growing capabilities and increased several mRNAs respect its parental strain PB11. These previous results led to propose to the PB11rppH<sup>-</sup> mutant as an intermediate between PB11 and PB12 strains merged during the early ALE experiment. In this contribution, we report the metabolic response to the PTS<sup>-</sup> and rppH<sup>-</sup> mutations in the deep of a proteomic approach to understanding the relevance of rppH<sup>-</sup> phenotype during an ALE experiment. Differentially upregulated proteins between the wild-type JM101/PB11, PB11/PB11rppH<sup>-</sup>, and PB11/PB12 comparisons led to identifying 45 proteins between strain comparisons. Downregulated or upregulated proteins in PB11rppH<sup>-</sup> were found expressed at an intermediate level with respect to PB11 and PB12. Many of these proteins were found involved in non-previously metabolic traits reported in the study of the PTS<sup>-</sup> strains, including glucose, amino acids, ribose transport; amino acid biosynthesis; NAD biosynthesis/salvage pathway, biosynthesis of Ac-CoA precursors; detoxification and degradation pathways; stress response; protein synthesis; and possible mutator activities between comparisons. No changes were found in the expression of galactose permease GalP, previously proposed as the primary glucose transporter in the absence of PTS selected by the PTS<sup>-</sup> derivatives during the ALE experiment. This result suggests that the evolving PTS<sup>-</sup> population selected other transporters such as LamB, MglB, and ManX instead of GalP for glucose uptake during the early ALE experiment. Analysis of the biological relevance of the metabolic traits developed by the studied strains provided valuable information to understand the relevance of the rppH<sup>-</sup> mutation in the PTS<sup>-</sup> background during an ALE experiment as a strategy for the selection of valuable phenotypes for metabolic engineering purposes.	2018 Dec	Aguilar, César; Aguilar, C; Aguilar; Martínez-Batallar, Gabriel; Martínez-Batallar, G; Martínez-Batallar; Flores, Noemí; Flores, N; Flores; Moreno-Avitia, Fabián; Moreno-Avitia, F; Moreno-Avitia; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Escalante, Adelfo; Escalante, A; Escalante; Bolívar, Francisco; Bolívar, F; Bolívar	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol
30519218	The Outer Membrane Vesicles of <i>Aeromonas hydrophila</i> ATCC<sup>®</sup> 7966<sup>TM</sup>: A Proteomic Analysis and Effect on Host Cells.	Gram-negative bacteria release outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) into the extracellular environment. OMVs have been studied extensively in bacterial pathogens, however, information related with the composition of <i>Aeromonas hydrophila</i> OMVs is missing. In this study we analyzed the composition of purified OMVs from <i>A. hydrophila</i> ATCC<sup>®</sup> 7966<sup>TM</sup> by proteomics. Also we studied the effect of OMVs on human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Vesicles were grown in agar plates and then purified through ultracentrifugation steps. Purified vesicles showed an average diameter of 90-170 nm. Moreover, 211 unique proteins were found in OMVs from <i>A. hydrophila</i>; some of them are well-known as virulence factors such as: haemolysin Ahh1, RtxA toxin, extracellular lipase, HcpA protein, among others. OMVs from <i>A. hydrophila</i> ATCC<sup>®</sup> 7966<sup>TM</sup> induced lymphocyte activation and apoptosis in monocytes, as well as over-expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines. This work contributed to the knowledge of the composition of the vesicles of <i>A. hydrophila</i> ATCC<sup>®</sup> 7966<sup>TM</sup> and their interaction with the host cell.	2018	Avila-Calderón, Eric Daniel; Avila-Calderón, ED; Avila-Calderón; Otero-Olarra, Jorge Erick; Otero-Olarra, JE; Otero-Olarra; Flores-Romo, Leopoldo; Flores-Romo, L; Flores-Romo; Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta; Aguilera-Arreola, Ma Guadalupe; Aguilera-Arreola, MG; Aguilera-Arreola; Morales-García, María Rosario; Morales-García, MR; Morales-García; Calderón-Amador, Juana; Calderón-Amador, J; Calderón-Amador; Medina-Chávez, Olin; Medina-Chávez, O; Medina-Chávez; Donis-Maturano, Luis; Donis-Maturano, L; Donis-Maturano; Ruiz-Palma, María Del Socorro; Ruiz-Palma, MDS; Ruiz-Palma; Contreras-Rodríguez, Araceli; Contreras-Rodríguez, A; Contreras-Rodríguez	Front Microbiol
30386709	Phylogenomics picks out the par excellence markers for species phylogeny in the genus <i>Staphylococcus</i>.	Although genome sequencing has become a very promising approach to conduct microbial taxonomy, few labs have the resources to afford this especially when dealing with data sets of hundreds to thousands of isolates. The goal of this study was to identify the most adequate loci for inferring the phylogeny of the species within the genus <i>Staphylococcus</i>; with the idea that those who cannot afford whole genome sequencing can use these loci to carry out species assignation confidently. We retrieved 177 orthologous groups (OGs) by using a genome-based phylogeny and an average nucleotide identity analysis. The top 26 OGs showed topologies similar to the species tree and the concatenation of them yielded a topology almost identical to that of the species tree. Furthermore, a phylogeny of just the top seven OGs could be used for species assignment. We sequenced four <i>staphylococcus</i> isolates to test the 26 OGs and found that these OGs were far superior to commonly used markers for this genus. On the whole, our procedure allowed identification of the most adequate markers for inferring the phylogeny within the genus <i>Staphylococcus</i>. We anticipate that this approach will be employed for the identification of the most suitable markers for other bacterial genera and can be very helpful to sort out poorly classified genera.	2018	Graña-Miraglia, Lucia; Graña-Miraglia, L; Graña-Miraglia; Arreguín-Pérez, César; Arreguín-Pérez, C; Arreguín-Pérez; López-Leal, Gamaliel; López-Leal, G; López-Leal; Muñoz, Alan; Muñoz, A; Muñoz; Pérez-Oseguera, Angeles; Pérez-Oseguera, A; Pérez-Oseguera; Miranda-Miranda, Estefan; Miranda-Miranda, E; Miranda-Miranda; Cossío-Bayúgar, Raquel; Cossío-Bayúgar, R; Cossío-Bayúgar; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez	PeerJ
30386264	Neuroimaging Studies of Suicidal Behavior and Non-suicidal Self-Injury in Psychiatric Patients: A Systematic Review.	<b>Background:</b> With around 800,000 people taking their own lives every year, suicide is a growing health concern. Understanding the factors that underlie suicidality and identifying specific variables associated with increased risk is paramount for increasing our understanding of suicide etiology. Neuroimaging methods that enable the investigation of structural and functional brain markers <i>in vivo</i> are a promising tool in suicide research. Although a number of studies in clinical samples have been published to date, evidence about neuroimaging correlates for suicidality remains controversial. <b>Objective:</b> Patients with mental disorders have an increased risk for both suicidal behavior and non-suicidal self-injury. This manuscript aims to present an up-to-date overview of the literature on potential neuroimaging markers associated with SB and NSSI in clinical samples. We sought to identify consistently reported structural changes associated with suicidal symptoms within and across psychiatric disorders. <b>Methods:</b> A systematic literature search across four databases was performed to identify all English-language neuroimaging articles involving patients with at least one psychiatric diagnosis and at least one variable assessing SB or NSSI. We evaluated and screened evidence in these articles against a set of inclusion/exclusion criteria and categorized them by disease, adhering to the PRISMA guidelines. <b>Results:</b> Thirty-three original scientific articles investigating neuroimaging correlates of SB in psychiatric samples were found, but no single article focusing on NSSI alone. Associations between suicidality and regions in frontal and temporal cortex were reported by 15 and 9 studies across four disorders, respectively. Furthermore, differences in hippocampus were reported by four studies across three disorders. However, we found a significant lack of replicability (consistency in size and direction) of results across studies. <b>Conclusions:</b> Our systematic review revealed a lack of neuroimaging studies focusing on NSSI in clinical samples. We highlight several potential sources of bias in published studies, and conclude that future studies should implement more rigorous study designs to minimize bias risk. Despite several studies reporting associations between SB and anatomical differences in the frontal cortex, there was a lack of consistency across them. We conclude that better-powered samples, standardized neuroimaging and analytical protocols are needed to continue advancing knowledge in this field.	2018	Domínguez-Baleón, Carmen; Domínguez-Baleón, C; Domínguez-Baleón; Gutiérrez-Mondragón, Luis F; Gutiérrez-Mondragón, LF; Gutiérrez-Mondragón; Campos-González, Adrián I; Campos-González, AI; Campos-González; Rentería, Miguel E; Rentería, ME; Rentería	Front Psychiatry
30326664	Phosphate Deficiency Negatively Affects Early Steps of the Symbiosis between Common Bean and Rhizobia.	Phosphate (Pi) deficiency reduces nodule formation and development in different legume species including common bean. Despite significant progress in the understanding of the genetic responses underlying the adaptation of nodules to Pi deficiency, it is still unclear whether this nutritional deficiency interferes with the molecular dialogue between legumes and rhizobia. If so, what part of the molecular dialogue is impaired? In this study, we provide evidence demonstrating that Pi deficiency negatively affects critical early molecular and physiological responses that are required for a successful symbiosis between common bean and rhizobia. We demonstrated that the infection thread formation and the expression of <i>PvNSP2</i>, <i>PvNIN</i>, and <i>PvFLOT2</i>, which are genes controlling the nodulation process were significantly reduced in Pi-deficient common bean seedlings. In addition, whole-genome transcriptional analysis revealed that the expression of hormones-related genes is compromised in Pi-deficient seedlings inoculated with rhizobia. Moreover, we showed that regardless of the presence or absence of rhizobia, the expression of <i>PvRIC1</i> and <i>PvRIC2</i>, two genes participating in the autoregulation of nodule numbers, was higher in Pi-deficient seedlings compared to control seedlings. The data presented in this study provides a mechanistic model to better understand how Pi deficiency impacts the early steps of the symbiosis between common bean and rhizobia.	2018 Oct	Isidra-Arellano, Mariel C; Isidra-Arellano, MC; Isidra-Arellano; Reyero-Saavedra, María Del Rocio; Reyero-Saavedra, MDR; Reyero-Saavedra; Sánchez-Correa, Maria Del Socorro; Sánchez-Correa, MDS; Sánchez-Correa; Pingault, Lise; Pingault, L; Pingault; Sen, Sidharth; Sen, S; Sen; Joshi, Trupti; Joshi, T; Joshi; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Castro-Guerrero, Norma A; Castro-Guerrero, NA; Castro-Guerrero; Mendoza-Cozatl, David G; Mendoza-Cozatl, DG; Mendoza-Cozatl; Libault, Marc; Libault, M; Libault; Valdés-López, Oswaldo; Valdés-López, O; Valdés-López	Genes (Basel)
30309375	Protective role of the vulture facial skin and gut microbiomes aid adaptation to scavenging.	Vultures have adapted the remarkable ability to feed on carcasses that may contain microorganisms that would be pathogenic to most other animals. The holobiont concept suggests that the genetic basis of such adaptation may not only lie within their genomes, but additionally in their associated microbes. To explore this, we generated shotgun DNA sequencing datasets of the facial skin and large intestine microbiomes of the black vulture (Coragyps atratus) and the turkey vulture (Cathartes aura). We characterized the functional potential and taxonomic diversity of their microbiomes, the potential pathogenic challenges confronted by vultures, and the microbial taxa and genes that could play a protective role on the facial skin and in the gut.	2018 Oct	Zepeda Mendoza, Marie Lisandra; Zepeda Mendoza, ML; Zepeda Mendoza; Roggenbuck, Michael; Roggenbuck, M; Roggenbuck; Manzano Vargas, Karla; Manzano Vargas, K; Manzano Vargas; Hansen, Lars Hestbjerg; Hansen, LH; Hansen; Brunak, Søren; Brunak, S; Brunak; Gilbert, M Thomas P; Gilbert, MTP; Gilbert; Sicheritz-Pontén, Thomas; Sicheritz-Pontén, T; Sicheritz-Pontén	Acta Vet Scand
30227648	Novel Roles of Non-Coding RNAs in Opioid Signaling and Cardioprotection.	Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality across the world. A large proportion of CVD deaths are secondary to coronary artery disease (CAD) and myocardial infarction (MI). Even though prevention is the best strategy to reduce risk factors associated with MI, the use of cardioprotective interventions aimed at improving patient outcomes is of great interest. Opioid conditioning has been shown to be effective in reducing myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) and cardiomyocyte death. However, the molecular mechanisms behind these effects are under investigation and could provide the basis for the development of novel therapeutic approaches in the treatment of CVD. Non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs), which are functional RNA molecules that do not translate into proteins, are critical modulators of cardiac gene expression during heart development and disease. Moreover, ncRNAs such as microRNAs (miRNAs) and long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are known to be induced by opioid receptor activation and regulate opioid signaling pathways. Recent advances in experimental and computational tools have accelerated the discovery and functional characterization of ncRNAs. In this study, we review the current understanding of the role of ncRNAs in opioid signaling and opioid-induced cardioprotection.	2018 Sep	Melo, Zesergio; Melo, Z; Melo; Ishida, Cecilia; Ishida, C; Ishida; Goldaraz, Maria de la Paz; Goldaraz, MP; Goldaraz; Rojo, Rocio; Rojo, R; Rojo; Echavarria, Raquel; Echavarria, R; Echavarria	Noncoding RNA
30165827	Analysis of genome sequence and symbiotic ability of rhizobial strains isolated from seeds of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris).	Rhizobia are alpha-proteobacteria commonly found in soil and root nodules of legumes. It was recently reported that nitrogen-fixing rhizobia also inhabit legume seeds. In this study, we examined whole-genome sequences of seven strains of rhizobia isolated from seeds of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris).	2018 Aug	Aguilar, Alejandro; Aguilar, A; Aguilar; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Dávalos, Araceli; Dávalos, A; Dávalos; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora; Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta	BMC Genomics
30214401	Exhaustive Multi-Parametric Assessment of the Behavioral Array of Daily Activities of Mice Using Cluster and Factor Analysis.	Using automated supervised behavioral assessment software, we recorded and analyzed 24 h non-interrupted recordings of mice for a duration of 11 days. With the assistance of free R programming, we used correlation matrix-based hierarchical clustering and factor analysis to separate the 33 activities into meaningful clusters and groups without losing the exhaustive nature of the findings. These groups represent novel meaningful behavioral patterns exhibited by mice in home cage. Thirty-three activities were separated into 5 clusters based on dissimilarity between activities and 6 factors based on statistical modeling. Using these two methods, we describe and compare behavioral arrays of two groups of animals: 1. Continuously recorded for 11 days in social isolation and 2. Intermittently socially isolated for recording on days 1, 3, 5, 8, and 10, while socializing on the other days. This is the first work to our knowledge that interprets mouse home cage activities throughout a 24 h period and proposes a base line of a daily routine of a healthy C57Bl/6J mouse that can be used for various experimental paradigms, including disease, neuroinflammation, or drug testing to trace behavioral changes that follow intervention. In this work, we defined the necessary acclimatization period for the 24 h recording paradigm of home cage behavior. We demonstrated the behavioral changes that are associated with the effect of social isolation, intermittent socialization, and re-introduction to a familiar home cage. We provide the full description of the codes used in R.	2018	Yamamoto, Kenzo; Yamamoto, K; Yamamoto; Gris, Katsiaryna V; Gris, KV; Gris; Sotelo Fonseca, Jesús E; Sotelo Fonseca, JE; Sotelo Fonseca; Gharagozloo, Marjan; Gharagozloo, M; Gharagozloo; Mahmoud, Shaimaa; Mahmoud, S; Mahmoud; Simard, Camille; Simard, C; Simard; Houle-Martel, Daphné; Houle-Martel, D; Houle-Martel; Cloutier, Theodore; Cloutier, T; Cloutier; Gris, Pavel; Gris, P; Gris; Gris, Denis; Gris, D; Gris	Front Behav Neurosci
30048774	Quantitative proteomics reveals proteins involved in the progression from non-cancerous lesions to gastric cancer.	Gastric cancer is one of the most aggressive malignancies affecting humankind. With almost a million cases globally, it sits in fifth position in terms of incidence, and third in terms of mortality. The progression of this disease is slow, with prolonged and sequential precancerous stages including chronic gastritis, intestinal metaplasia, dysplasia, and finally gastric cancer. Here we used the iTRAQ approach combined with high-resolution mass spectrometry analysis to describe the spectrum of the gastric cancer cascade. Biopsies from three stages: chronic gastritis, intestinal metaplasia, and gastric adenocarcinoma, were selected for analysis by quantitative proteomics. We identified and reported quantitative data for 3914 different proteins quantified with high confidence, uncovering pathways and processes dysregulated between the different stages. Intestinal metaplasia is characterized by the down-regulation of ribosomal proteins, with overexpression of cell survival proteins such as GSTP1 and EPCAM. The transformation to gastric cancer involves overexpression of the DNA replication and the spliceosome pathways. The impairment of mitochondrial pathways was correlated with down-regulation of SIRT3 and SIRT5, and overexpression of enzymes supporting the glycolytic phenotype, such as HK3 and PCK2. Several proteins found dysregulated during the progression of gastric cancer have potential to be used as specific biomarkers and/or therapeutic targets.	2018 08	Fernández-Coto, Diana Lashidua; Fernández-Coto, DL; Fernández-Coto; Gil, Jeovanis; Gil, J; Gil; Hernández, Angélica; Hernández, A; Hernández; Herrera-Goepfert, Roberto; Herrera-Goepfert, R; Herrera-Goepfert; Castro-Romero, Ivone; Castro-Romero, I; Castro-Romero; Hernández-Márquez, Eva; Hernández-Márquez, E; Hernández-Márquez; Arenas-Linares, Ana Silvia; Arenas-Linares, AS; Arenas-Linares; Calderon-Sosa, Valia Tletzalli; Calderon-Sosa, VT; Calderon-Sosa; Sanchez-Aleman, Miguel Ángel; Sanchez-Aleman, MÁ; Sanchez-Aleman; Mendez-Tenorio, Alfonso; Mendez-Tenorio, A; Mendez-Tenorio; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Ayala, Guadalupe; Ayala, G; Ayala	J Proteomics
30186248	Phylogenomic Classification and the Evolution of Clonal Complex 5 Methicillin-Resistant <i>Staphylococcus aureus</i> in the Western Hemisphere.	Clonal complex 5 methicillin-resistant <i>Staphylococcus aureus</i> (CC5-MRSA) includes multiple prevalent clones that cause hospital-associated infections in the Western Hemisphere. Here, we present a phylogenomic study of these MRSA to reveal their phylogeny, spatial and temporal population structure, and the evolution of selected traits. We studied 598 genome sequences, including 409 newly generated sequences, from 11 countries in Central, North, and South America, and references from Asia and Europe. An early-branching CC5-Basal clade is well-dispersed geographically, is methicillin-susceptible and MRSA predominantly of ST5-IV such as the USA800 clone, and includes separate subclades for avian and porcine strains. In the early 1970s and early 1960s, respectively, two clades appeared that subsequently underwent major expansions in the Western Hemisphere: a CC5-I clade in South America and a CC5-II clade largely in Central and North America. The CC5-I clade includes the ST5-I Chilean/Cordobes clone, and the ST228-I South German clone as an early offshoot, but is distinct from other ST5-I clones from Europe that nest within CC5-Basal. The CC5-II clade includes divergent strains of the ST5-II USA100 clone, various other clones, and most known vancomycin-resistant strains of <i>S. aureus</i>, but is distinct from ST5-II strain N315 from Japan that nests within CC5-Basal. The recombination rate of CC5 was much lower than has been reported for other <i>S. aureus</i> genetic backgrounds, which indicates that recurrence of vancomycin resistance in CC5 is not likely due to an enhanced promiscuity. An increased number of antibiotic resistances and decreased number of toxins with distance from the CC5 tree root were observed. Of note, the expansions of the CC5-I and CC5-II clades in the Western Hemisphere were preceded by convergent gains of resistance to fluoroquinolone, macrolide, and lincosamide antibiotics, and convergent losses of the staphylococcal enterotoxin p (<i>sep</i>) gene from the immune evasion gene cluster of phage ϕSa3. Unique losses of surface proteins were also noted for these two clades. In summary, our study has determined the relationships of different clades and clones of CC5 and has revealed genomic changes for increased antibiotic resistance and decreased virulence associated with the expansions of these MRSA in the Western Hemisphere.	2018	Challagundla, Lavanya; Challagundla, L; Challagundla; Reyes, Jinnethe; Reyes, J; Reyes; Rafiqullah, Iftekhar; Rafiqullah, I; Rafiqullah; Sordelli, Daniel O; Sordelli, DO; Sordelli; Echaniz-Aviles, Gabriela; Echaniz-Aviles, G; Echaniz-Aviles; Velazquez-Meza, Maria E; Velazquez-Meza, ME; Velazquez-Meza; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Fittipaldi, Nahuel; Fittipaldi, N; Fittipaldi; Feldgarden, Michael; Feldgarden, M; Feldgarden; Chapman, Sinéad B; Chapman, SB; Chapman; Calderwood, Michael S; Calderwood, MS; Calderwood; Carvajal, Lina P; Carvajal, LP; Carvajal; Rincon, Sandra; Rincon, S; Rincon; Hanson, Blake; Hanson, B; Hanson; Planet, Paul J; Planet, PJ; Planet; Arias, Cesar A; Arias, CA; Arias; Diaz, Lorena; Diaz, L; Diaz; Robinson, D Ashley; Robinson, DA; Robinson	Front Microbiol
30115066	A unified resource for transcriptional regulation in Escherichia coli K-12 incorporating high-throughput-generated binding data into RegulonDB version 10.0.	Our understanding of the regulation of gene expression has benefited from the availability of high-throughput technologies that interrogate the whole genome for the binding of specific transcription factors and gene expression profiles. In the case of widely used model organisms, such as Escherichia coli K-12, the new knowledge gained from these approaches needs to be integrated with the legacy of accumulated knowledge from genetic and molecular biology experiments conducted in the pre-genomic era in order to attain the deepest level of understanding possible based on the available data.	2018 08	Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Sánchez-Pérez, Mishael; Sánchez-Pérez, M; Sánchez-Pérez; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Velázquez-Ramírez, David A; Velázquez-Ramírez, DA; Velázquez-Ramírez; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Tierrafría, Víctor H; Tierrafría, VH; Tierrafría; Busby, Stephen J W; Busby, SJW; Busby; Aquino, Patricia; Aquino, P; Aquino; Fang, Xin; Fang, X; Fang; Palsson, Bernhard O; Palsson, BO; Palsson; Galagan, James E; Galagan, JE; Galagan; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	BMC Biol
30147704	The MicroRNA319d/TCP10 Node Regulates the Common Bean - Rhizobia Nitrogen-Fixing Symbiosis.	Micro-RNAs from legume plants are emerging as relevant regulators of the rhizobia nitrogen-fixing symbiosis. In this work we functionally characterized the role of the node conformed by micro-RNA319 (miR319) - TEOSINTE BRANCHED/CYCLOIDEA/PCF (TCP) transcription factor in the common bean (<i>Phaseolus vulgaris</i>) - <i>Rhizobium tropici</i> symbiosis. The miR319d, one of nine miR319 isoforms from common bean, was highly expressed in root and nodules from inoculated plants as compared to roots from fertilized plants. The miR319d targets <i>TCP10</i> (Phvul.005G067950), identified by degradome analysis, whose expression showed a negative correlation with miR319d expression. The phenotypic analysis of <i>R. tropici</i>-inoculated composite plants with transgenic roots/nodules overexpressing or silencing the function of miR319d demonstrated the relevant role of the miR319d/TCP10 node in the common bean rhizobia symbiosis. Increased miR319d resulted in reduced root length/width ratio, increased rhizobial infection evidenced by more deformed root hairs and infection threads, and decreased nodule formation and nitrogenase activity per plant. In addition, these plants with lower TCP10 levels showed decreased expression level of the jasmonic acid (JA) biosynthetic gene: <i>LOX2.</i> The transcription of <i>LOX2</i> by TCPs has been demonstrated for Arabidopsis and in several plants <i>LOX2</i> level and JA content have been associate with TCP levels. On this basis, we propose that in roots/nodules of inoculated common bean plants TCP10 could be the transcriptional regulator of <i>LOX2</i> and the miR319d/TCP10 node could affect nodulation through JA signaling. However, given the complexity of nodulation, the participation of other signaling pathways in the phenotypes observed cannot be ruled out.	2018	Martín-Rodríguez, José Á; Martín-Rodríguez, JÁ; Martín-Rodríguez; Leija, Alfonso; Leija, A; Leija; Formey, Damien; Formey, D; Formey; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	Front Plant Sci
30140262	Nitrogen Fixation in Cereals.	Cereals such as maize, rice, wheat and sorghum are the most important crops for human nutrition. Like other plants, cereals associate with diverse bacteria (including nitrogen-fixing bacteria called diazotrophs) and fungi. As large amounts of chemical fertilizers are used in cereals, it has always been desirable to promote biological nitrogen fixation in such crops. The quest for nitrogen fixation in cereals started long ago with the isolation of nitrogen-fixing bacteria from different plants. The sources of diazotrophs in cereals may be seeds, soils, and even irrigation water and diazotrophs have been found on roots or as endophytes. Recently, culture-independent molecular approaches have revealed that some rhizobia are found in cereal plants and that bacterial nitrogenase genes are expressed in plants. Since the levels of nitrogen-fixation attained with nitrogen-fixing bacteria in cereals are not high enough to support the plant's needs and never as good as those obtained with chemical fertilizers or with rhizobium in symbiosis with legumes, it has been the aim of different studies to increase nitrogen-fixation in cereals. In many cases, these efforts have not been successful. However, new diazotroph mutants with enhanced capabilities to excrete ammonium are being successfully used to promote plant growth as commensal bacteria. In addition, there are ambitious projects supported by different funding agencies that are trying to genetically modify maize and other cereals to enhance diazotroph colonization or to fix nitrogen or to form nodules with nitrogen-fixing symbiotic rhizobia.	2018	Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; López-López, Aline; López-López, A; López-López; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Reyes-Hernández, Blanca Jazmín; Reyes-Hernández, BJ; Reyes-Hernández; Martínez-Romero, Julio C; Martínez-Romero, JC; Martínez-Romero; Reddy, Pallavolu M; Reddy, PM; Reddy; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Front Microbiol
29961811	Detection of VBNC Vibrio cholerae by RT-Real Time PCR based on differential gene expression analysis.	The recognition of the viable but non-culturable (VBNC) state of pathogenic bacteria has brought with it many questions to answer related to the need to detect and quantify viable bacteria in the environment in an accurate way. To assess viability of Vibrio cholerae, we developed a RT-Real Time PCR technique based on differential expression analysis from mRNA deep sequencing data. We compared two induction conditions to achieve the VBNC state: a bacterial suspension induced by artificial seawater at 4°C, and the addition of 3',5'-cyclic diguanylic acid. The evaluation of the up-regulated genes in the induced bacterial samples was compared with a fresh culture in the mid-exponential phase. The data analysis was performed with the NOISeq R-package and revealed 17 up-regulated genes for induction condition I and 22 up-regulated genes for induction condition II. Only one region was found to be up-regulated for both induction conditions. The VCA0656 gene related to the aminoimidazole riboside kinase protein was detected as the most up-regulated region and used as a genetic marker to precisely detect the VBNC state in combination with the RT-Real Time PCR technique. This approach describes a novel method to differentiate the VBNC state of V. cholerae in water samples.	2018 08	Casasola-Rodríguez, Beatriz; Casasola-Rodríguez, B; Casasola-Rodríguez; Ruiz-Palacios, Guillermo M; Ruiz-Palacios, GM; Ruiz-Palacios; Pilar, Ramos-Cervantes; Pilar, RC; Pilar; Losano, Luis; Losano, L; Losano; Ignacio, Monje-Ramírez; Ignacio, MR; Ignacio; Orta de Velásquez, María Teresa; Orta de Velásquez, MT; Orta de Velásquez	FEMS Microbiol Lett
30065716	Compounds Released by the Biocontrol Yeast <i>Hanseniaspora opuntiae</i> Protect Plants Against <i>Corynespora cassiicola</i> and <i>Botrytis cinerea</i>.	Plant diseases induced by fungi are among the most important limiting factors during pre- and post-harvest food production. For decades, synthetic chemical fungicides have been used to control these diseases, however, increase on worldwide regulatory policies and the demand to reduce their application, have led to searching for new ecofriendly alternatives such as the biostimulants. The commercial application of yeasts as biocontrol agents, has shown low efficacy compared to synthetic fungicides, mostly due to the limited knowledge of the molecular mechanisms of yeast-induced responses. To date, only two genome-wide transcriptomic analyses have characterized the mode of action of biocontrols using the plant model <i>Arabidopsis thaliana</i>, missing, in our point of view, all its molecular and genomic potential. Here we describe that compounds released by the biocontrol yeast <i>Hanseniaspora opuntiae</i> (HoFs) can protect <i>Glycine max</i> and <i>Arabidopsis thaliana</i> plants against the broad host-range necrotrophic fungi <i>Corynespora cassiicola</i> and <i>Botrytis cinerea</i>. We show that HoFs have a long-lasting, dose-dependent local, and systemic effect against <i>Botrytis cinerea</i>. Additionally, we performed a genome-wide transcriptomic analysis to identify genes differentially expressed after application of HoFs in <i>Arabidopsis thaliana</i>. Our work provides novel and valuable information that can help researchers to improve HoFs efficacy in order for it to become an ecofriendly alternative to synthetic fungicides.	2018	Ferreira-Saab, Mariana; Ferreira-Saab, M; Ferreira-Saab; Formey, Damien; Formey, D; Formey; Torres, Martha; Torres, M; Torres; Aragón, Wendy; Aragón, W; Aragón; Padilla, Emir A; Padilla, EA; Padilla; Tromas, Alexandre; Tromas, A; Tromas; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Schwan-Estrada, Kátia R F; Schwan-Estrada, KRF; Schwan-Estrada; Serrano, Mario; Serrano, M; Serrano	Front Microbiol
29886516	Biotransformation of benzo[a]pyrene by the thermophilic bacterium Bacillus licheniformis M2-7.	Benzo[a]pyrene (BaP) is recognized as a potentially carcinogenic and mutagenic hydrocarbon, and thus, its removal from the environment is a priority. The use of thermophilic bacteria capable of biodegrading or biotransforming this compound to less toxic forms has been explored in recent decades, since it provides advantages compared to mesophilic organisms. This study assessed the biotransformation of BaP by the thermophilic bacterium Bacillus licheniformis M2-7. Our analysis of the biotransformation process mediated by strain M2-7 on BaP shows that it begins during the first 3 h of culture. The gas chromatogram of the compound produced shows a peak with a retention time of 17.38 min, and the mass spectra shows an approximate molecular ion of m/z 167, which coincides with the molecular weight of the chemical formula C<sub>6</sub>H<sub>4</sub>(COOH)<sub>2</sub>, confirming a chemical structure corresponding to phthalic acid. Catechol 2,3-dioxygenase (C23O) enzyme activity was detected in minimal saline medium supplemented with BaP (0.33 U mg<sup>-1</sup> of protein). This finding suggests that B. licheniformis M2-7 uses the meta pathway for biodegrading BaP using the enzyme C23O, thereby generating phthalic acid as an intermediate.	2018 Jun	Guevara-Luna, Joseph; Guevara-Luna, J; Guevara-Luna; Alvarez-Fitz, Patricia; Alvarez-Fitz, P; Alvarez-Fitz; Ríos-Leal, Elvira; Ríos-Leal, E; Ríos-Leal; Acevedo-Quiroz, Macdiel; Acevedo-Quiroz, M; Acevedo-Quiroz; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Moreno-Godinez, Ma Elena; Moreno-Godinez, ME; Moreno-Godinez; Castellanos-Escamilla, Mildred; Castellanos-Escamilla, M; Castellanos-Escamilla; Toribio-Jiménez, Jeiry; Toribio-Jiménez, J; Toribio-Jiménez; Romero-Ramírez, Yanet; Romero-Ramírez, Y; Romero-Ramírez	World J Microbiol Biotechnol
29488306	2-Tridecanone impacts surface-associated bacterial behaviours and hinders plant-bacteria interactions.	Surface motility and biofilm formation are behaviours which enable bacteria to infect their hosts and are controlled by different chemical signals. In the plant symbiotic alpha-proteobacterium Sinorhizobium meliloti, the lack of long-chain fatty acyl-coenzyme A synthetase activity (FadD) leads to increased surface motility, defects in biofilm development and impaired root colonization. In this study, analyses of lipid extracts and volatiles revealed that a fadD mutant accumulates 2-tridecanone (2-TDC), a methylketone (MK) known as a natural insecticide. Application of pure 2-TDC to the wild-type strain phenocopies the free-living and symbiotic behaviours of the fadD mutant. Structural features of the MK determine its ability to promote S. meliloti surface translocation, which is mainly mediated by a flagella-independent motility. Transcriptomic analyses showed that 2-TDC induces differential expression of iron uptake, redox and stress-related genes. Interestingly, this MK also influences surface motility and impairs biofilm formation in plant and animal pathogenic bacteria. Moreover, 2-TDC not only hampers alfalfa nodulation but also the development of tomato bacterial speck disease. This work assigns a new role to 2-TDC as an infochemical that affects important bacterial traits and hampers plant-bacteria interactions by interfering with microbial colonization of plant tissues.	2018 06	López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Nogales, Joaquina; Nogales, J; Nogales; Pech-Canul, Ángel; Pech-Canul, Á; Pech-Canul; Calatrava-Morales, Nieves; Calatrava-Morales, N; Calatrava-Morales; Bernabéu-Roda, Lydia M; Bernabéu-Roda, LM; Bernabéu-Roda; Durán, Paloma; Durán, P; Durán; Cuéllar, Virginia; Cuéllar, V; Cuéllar; Olivares, José; Olivares, J; Olivares; Alvarez, Laura; Alvarez, L; Alvarez; Palenzuela-Bretones, Diana; Palenzuela-Bretones, D; Palenzuela-Bretones; Romero, Manuel; Romero, M; Romero; Heeb, Stephan; Heeb, S; Heeb; Cámara, Miguel; Cámara, M; Cámara; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Soto, María J; Soto, MJ; Soto	Environ Microbiol
29608946	Phytoestrogens and mycoestrogens interacting with breast cancer proteins.	Breast cancer is a highly heterogeneous disease influenced by the hormonal microenvironment and the most common malignancy in women worldwide. Some phytoestrogens and mycoestrogens have been epidemiologically linked as risk factors or protectors, however their mechanisms of action are complex and not fully understood. The aim of this study was to predict the potential of 36 natural xenoestrogens to interact with 189 breast cancer proteins using AutoDock Vina. In order to validate our protocol, an in silico docking pose and binding site determination was compared with the crystallographic structure and the power of prediction to distinguish between ligand and decoys was evaluated through a receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC) of the resultant docking affinities and in vitro data. The best affinity score was obtained for glyceollin III interacting with the sex hormone binding globulin (-11.9 Kcal/mol), a plasma steroid transport protein that regulates sex steroids bioavailability. Other natural xenoestrogens such as beta-carotene, chrysophanol 8-O-beta-d-glucopyranoside and glyceollin I, also presented good affinity for proteins related to this disease and the validation was successful. This study may help to prioritize compounds for toxicity tests or drug development from natural scaffolds, and to elucidate their mechanisms of action.	2018 06	Montes-Grajales, Diana; Montes-Grajales, D; Montes-Grajales; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Olivero-Verbel, Jesus; Olivero-Verbel, J; Olivero-Verbel	Steroids
29857581	Protein Expression Profile of Twenty-Week-Old Diabetic db/db and Non-Diabetic Mice Livers: A Proteomic and Bioinformatic Analysis.	Type 2 diabetes mellitus is characterized by insulin resistance in the liver. Insulin is not only involved in carbohydrate metabolism, it also regulates protein synthesis. This work describes the expression of proteins in the liver of a diabetic mouse and identifies the metabolic pathways involved. Twenty-week-old diabetic db/db mice were hepatectomized, after which proteins were separated by 2D-Polyacrylamide Gel Electrophoresis (2D-PAGE). Spots varying in intensity were analyzed using mass spectrometry, and biological function was assigned by the Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery (DAVID) software. A differential expression of 26 proteins was identified; among these were arginase-1, pyruvate carboxylase, peroxiredoxin-1, regucalcin, and sorbitol dehydrogenase. Bioinformatics analysis indicated that many of these proteins are mitochondrial and participate in metabolic pathways, such as the citrate cycle, the fructose and mannose metabolism, and glycolysis or gluconeogenesis. In addition, these proteins are related to oxidation⁻reduction reactions and molecular function of vitamin binding and amino acid metabolism. In conclusion, the proteomic profile of the liver of diabetic mouse db/db exhibited mainly alterations in the metabolism of carbohydrates and nitrogen. These differences illustrate the heterogeneity of diabetes in its different stages and under different conditions and highlights the need to improve treatments for this disease.	2018 06	Guzmán-Flores, Juan Manuel; Guzmán-Flores, JM; Guzmán-Flores; Flores-Pérez, Elsa Cristina; Flores-Pérez, EC; Flores-Pérez; Hernández-Ortiz, Magdalena; Hernández-Ortiz, M; Hernández-Ortiz; Vargas-Ortiz, Katya; Vargas-Ortiz, K; Vargas-Ortiz; Ramírez-Emiliano, Joel; Ramírez-Emiliano, J; Ramírez-Emiliano; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Pérez-Vázquez, Victoriano; Pérez-Vázquez, V; Pérez-Vázquez	Biomolecules
29280343	The ropAe gene encodes a porin-like protein involved in copper transit in Rhizobium etli CFN42.	Copper (Cu) is an essential micronutrient for all aerobic forms of life. Its oxidation states (Cu<sup>+</sup> /Cu<sup>2+</sup> ) make this metal an important cofactor of enzymes catalyzing redox reactions in essential biological processes. In gram-negative bacteria, Cu uptake is an unexplored component of a finely regulated trafficking network, mediated by protein-protein interactions that deliver Cu to target proteins and efflux surplus metal to avoid toxicity. Rhizobium etliCFN42 is a facultative symbiotic diazotroph that must ensure its appropriate Cu supply for living either free in the soil or as an intracellular symbiont of leguminous plants. In crop fields, rhizobia have to contend with copper-based fungicides. A detailed deletion analysis of the pRet42e (505 kb) plasmid from an R. etli mutant with enhanced CuCl<sub>2</sub> tolerance led us to the identification of the ropAe gene, predicted to encode an outer membrane protein (OMP) with a β-barrel channel structure that may be involved in Cu transport. In support of this hypothesis, the functional characterization of ropAe revealed that: (I) gene disruption increased copper tolerance of the mutant, and its complementation with the wild-type gene restored its wild-type copper sensitivity; (II) the ropAe gene maintains a low basal transcription level in copper overload, but is upregulated when copper is scarce; (III) disruption of ropAe in an actP (copA) mutant background, defective in copper efflux, partially reduced its copper sensitivity phenotype. Finally, BLASTP comparisons and a maximum likelihood phylogenetic analysis highlight the diversification of four RopA paralogs in members of the Rhizobiaceae family. Orthologs of RopAe are highly conserved in the Rhizobiales order, poorly conserved in other alpha proteobacteria and phylogenetically unrelated to characterized porins involved in Cu or Mn uptake.	2018 06	González-Sánchez, Antonio; González-Sánchez, A; González-Sánchez; Cubillas, Ciro A; Cubillas, CA; Cubillas; Miranda, Fabiola; Miranda, F; Miranda; Dávalos, Araceli; Dávalos, A; Dávalos; García-de Los Santos, Alejandro; García-de Los Santos, A; García-de Los Santos	Microbiologyopen
29735690	Precise detection of de novo single nucleotide variants in human genomes.	The precise determination of de novo genetic variants has enormous implications across different fields of biology and medicine, particularly personalized medicine. Currently, de novo variations are identified by mapping sample reads from a parent-offspring trio to a reference genome, allowing for a certain degree of differences. While widely used, this approach often introduces false-positive (FP) results due to misaligned reads and mischaracterized sequencing errors. In a previous study, we developed an alternative approach to accurately identify single nucleotide variants (SNVs) using only perfect matches. However, this approach could be applied only to haploid regions of the genome and was computationally intensive. In this study, we present a unique approach, coverage-based single nucleotide variant identification (COBASI), which allows the exploration of the entire genome using second-generation short sequence reads without extensive computing requirements. COBASI identifies SNVs using changes in coverage of exactly matching unique substrings, and is particularly suited for pinpointing de novo SNVs. Unlike other approaches that require population frequencies across hundreds of samples to filter out any methodological biases, COBASI can be applied to detect de novo SNVs within isolated families. We demonstrate this capability through extensive simulation studies and by studying a parent-offspring trio we sequenced using short reads. Experimental validation of all 58 candidate de novo SNVs and a selection of non-de novo SNVs found in the trio confirmed zero FP calls. COBASI is available as open source at https://github.com/Laura-Gomez/COBASI for any researcher to use.	2018 05	Gómez-Romero, Laura; Gómez-Romero, L; Gómez-Romero; Palacios-Flores, Kim; Palacios-Flores, K; Palacios-Flores; Reyes, José; Reyes, J; Reyes; García, Delfino; García, D; García; Boege, Margareta; Boege, M; Boege; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; Flores, Margarita; Flores, M; Flores; Schatz, Michael C; Schatz, MC; Schatz; Palacios, Rafael; Palacios, R; Palacios	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
29867794	Genome-Wide Comparative Functional Analyses Reveal Adaptations of <i>Salmonella</i> sv. Newport to a Plant Colonization Lifestyle.	Outbreaks of salmonellosis linked to the consumption of vegetables have been disproportionately associated with strains of serovar Newport. We tested the hypothesis that strains of sv. Newport have evolved unique adaptations to persistence in plants that are not shared by strains of other <i>Salmonella</i> serovars. We used a genome-wide mutant screen to compare growth in tomato fruit of a sv. Newport strain from an outbreak traced to tomatoes, and a sv. Typhimurium strain from animals. Most genes in the sv. Newport strain that were selected during persistence in tomatoes were shared with, and similarly selected in, the sv. Typhimurium strain. Many of their functions are linked to central metabolism, including amino acid biosynthetic pathways, iron acquisition, and maintenance of cell structure. One exception was a greater need for the core genes involved in purine metabolism in sv. Typhimurium than in sv. Newport. We discovered a gene, <i>papA</i>, that was unique to sv. Newport and contributed to the strain's fitness in tomatoes. The <i>papA</i> gene was present in about 25% of sv. Newport Group III genomes and generally absent from other <i>Salmonella</i> genomes. Homologs of <i>papA</i> were detected in the genomes of <i>Pantoea, Dickeya</i>, and <i>Pectobacterium</i>, members of the Enterobacteriacea family that can colonize both plants and animals.	2018	de Moraes, Marcos H; de Moraes, MH; de Moraes; Soto, Emanuel Becerra; Soto, EB; Soto; Salas González, Isai; Salas González, I; Salas González; Desai, Prerak; Desai, P; Desai; Chu, Weiping; Chu, W; Chu; Porwollik, Steffen; Porwollik, S; Porwollik; McClelland, Michael; McClelland, M; McClelland; Teplitski, Max; Teplitski, M; Teplitski	Front Microbiol
29771928	ChIP-exo interrogation of Crp, DNA, and RNAP holoenzyme interactions.	Numerous in vitro studies have yielded a refined picture of the structural and molecular associations between Cyclic-AMP receptor protein (Crp), the DNA motif, and RNA polymerase (RNAP) holoenzyme. In this study, high-resolution ChIP-exonuclease (ChIP-exo) was applied to study Crp binding in vivo and at genome-scale. Surprisingly, Crp was found to provide little to no protection of the DNA motif under activating conditions. Instead, Crp demonstrated binding patterns that closely resembled those generated by σ70. The binding patterns of both Crp and σ70 are indicative of RNAP holoenzyme DNA footprinting profiles associated with stages during transcription initiation that occur post-recruitment. This is marked by a pronounced advancement of the template strand footprint profile to the +20 position relative to the transcription start site and a multimodal distribution on the nontemplate strand. This trend was also observed in the familial transcription factor, Fnr, but full protection of the motif was seen in the repressor ArcA. Given the time-scale of ChIP studies and that the rate-limiting step in transcription initiation is typically post recruitment, we propose a hypothesis where Crp is absent from the DNA motif but remains associated with RNAP holoenzyme post-recruitment during transcription initiation. The release of Crp from the DNA motif may be a result of energetic changes that occur as RNAP holoenzyme traverses the various stable intermediates towards elongation complex formation.	2018	Latif, Haythem; Latif, H; Latif; Federowicz, Stephen; Federowicz, S; Federowicz; Ebrahim, Ali; Ebrahim, A; Ebrahim; Tarasova, Janna; Tarasova, J; Tarasova; Szubin, Richard; Szubin, R; Szubin; Utrilla, Jose; Utrilla, J; Utrilla; Zengler, Karsten; Zengler, K; Zengler; Palsson, Bernhard O; Palsson, BO; Palsson	PLoS One
29867787	The Genomic Basis of Intrinsic and Acquired Antibiotic Resistance in the Genus <i>Serratia</i>.	<i>Serratia marcescens</i>, a member of the <i>Enterobacteriaceae</i> family, was long thought to be a non-pathogenic bacterium prevalent in environmental habitats. Together with other members of this genus, it has emerged in recent years as an opportunistic nosocomial pathogen causing various types of infections. One important feature of pathogens belonging to this genus is their intrinsic and acquired resistance to a variety of antibiotic families, including β-lactam, aminoglycosides, quinolones and polypeptide antibiotics. The aim of this study was to elucidate which genes participate in the intrinsic and acquired antibiotic resistance of this genus in order to determine the <i>Serratia</i> genus resistome. We performed phylogenomic and comparative genomic analyses using 32 <i>Serratia</i> spp. genomes deposited in the NCBI GenBank from strains isolated from different ecological niches and different lifestyles. <i>S. marcescens</i> strain SmUNAM836, which was previously isolated from a Mexican adult with obstructive pulmonary disease, was included in this study. The results show that most of the antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) were found on the chromosome, and to a lesser degree, on plasmids and transposons acquired through horizontal gene transfer. Four strains contained the <i>gyrA</i> point mutation in codon Ser83 that confers quinolone resistance. Pathogenic and environmental isolates presented a high number of ARGs, especially genes associated with efflux systems. Pathogenic strains, specifically nosocomial strains, presented more acquired resistance genes than environmental isolates. We may conclude that the environment provides a natural reservoir for antibiotic resistance, which has been underestimated in the medical field.	2018	Sandner-Miranda, Luisa; Sandner-Miranda, L; Sandner-Miranda; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Cravioto, Alejandro; Cravioto, A; Cravioto; Morales-Espinosa, Rosario; Morales-Espinosa, R; Morales-Espinosa	Front Microbiol
29452714	Genetic diversity and structure of Rhizobium leguminosarum populations associated with clover plants are influenced by local environmental variables.	The identification and conservation of indigenous rhizobia associated with legume plants and their application as biofertilizers is becoming an agricultural worldwide priority. However, little is known about the genetic diversity and phylogeny of rhizobia in Romania. In the present study, the genetic diversity and population composition of Rhizobium leguminosarum symbiovar trifolii isolates from 12 clover plants populations located across two regions in Romania were analyzed. Red clover isolates were phenotypically evaluated and genotyped by sequencing 16S rRNA gene, 16S-23S intergenic spacer, three chromosomal genes (atpD, glnII and recA) and two plasmid genes (nifH and nodA). Multilocus sequence typing (MLST) analysis revealed that red clover plants are nodulated by a wide genetic diversity of R. leguminosarum symbiovar trifolii sequence types (STs), highly similar to the ones previously found in white clover. Rhizobial genetic variation was found mainly within the two clover populations for both chromosomal and plasmid types. Many STs appear to be unique for this region and the genetic composition of rhizobia differs significantly among the clover populations. Furthermore, our results showed that both soil pH and altitude contributed to plasmid sequence type composition while differences in chromosomal composition were affected by the altitude and were strongly correlated with distance.	2018 May	Stefan, Andrei; Stefan, A; Stefan; Van Cauwenberghe, Jannick; Van Cauwenberghe, J; Van Cauwenberghe; Rosu, Craita M; Rosu, CM; Rosu; Stedel, Catalina; Stedel, C; Stedel; Labrou, Nikolaos E; Labrou, NE; Labrou; Flemetakis, Emmanouil; Flemetakis, E; Flemetakis; Efrose, Rodica C; Efrose, RC; Efrose	Syst Appl Microbiol
29765358	GET_PHYLOMARKERS, a Software Package to Select Optimal Orthologous Clusters for Phylogenomics and Inferring Pan-Genome Phylogenies, Used for a Critical Geno-Taxonomic Revision of the Genus <i>Stenotrophomonas</i>.	The massive accumulation of genome-sequences in public databases promoted the proliferation of genome-level phylogenetic analyses in many areas of biological research. However, due to diverse evolutionary and genetic processes, many loci have undesirable properties for phylogenetic reconstruction. These, if undetected, can result in erroneous or biased estimates, particularly when estimating species trees from concatenated datasets. To deal with these problems, we developed GET_PHYLOMARKERS, a pipeline designed to identify high-quality markers to estimate robust genome phylogenies from the orthologous clusters, or the pan-genome matrix (PGM), computed by GET_HOMOLOGUES. In the first context, a set of sequential filters are applied to exclude recombinant alignments and those producing anomalous or poorly resolved trees. Multiple sequence alignments and maximum likelihood (ML) phylogenies are computed in parallel on multi-core computers. A ML species tree is estimated from the concatenated set of top-ranking alignments at the DNA or protein levels, using either FastTree or IQ-TREE (IQT). The latter is used by default due to its superior performance revealed in an extensive benchmark analysis. In addition, parsimony and ML phylogenies can be estimated from the PGM. We demonstrate the practical utility of the software by analyzing 170 <i>Stenotrophomonas</i> genome sequences available in RefSeq and 10 new complete genomes of Mexican environmental <i>S. maltophilia</i> complex (Smc) isolates reported herein. A combination of core-genome and PGM analyses was used to revise the molecular systematics of the genus. An unsupervised learning approach that uses a goodness of clustering statistic identified 20 groups within the Smc at a core-genome average nucleotide identity (cgANIb) of 95.9% that are perfectly consistent with strongly supported clades on the core- and pan-genome trees. In addition, we identified 16 misclassified RefSeq genome sequences, 14 of them labeled as <i>S. maltophilia</i>, demonstrating the broad utility of the software for phylogenomics and geno-taxonomic studies. The code, a detailed manual and tutorials are freely available for Linux/UNIX servers under the GNU GPLv3 license at https://github.com/vinuesa/get_phylomarkers. A docker image bundling GET_PHYLOMARKERS with GET_HOMOLOGUES is available at https://hub.docker.com/r/csicunam/get_homologues/, which can be easily run on any platform.	2018	Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Ochoa-Sánchez, Luz E; Ochoa-Sánchez, LE; Ochoa-Sánchez; Contreras-Moreira, Bruno; Contreras-Moreira, B; Contreras-Moreira	Front Microbiol
29720528	Invasive Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus USA500 Strains from the U.S. Emerging Infections Program Constitute Three Geographically Distinct Lineages.	USA500 isolates are clonal complex 8 (CC8) <i>Staphylococcus aureus</i> strains closely related to the prominent community- and hospital-associated USA300 group. Despite being relatively understudied, USA500 strains cause a significant burden of disease and are the third most common methicillin-resistant <i>S. aureus</i> (MRSA) strains identified in the U.S. Emerging Infections Program (EIP) invasive <i>S. aureus</i> surveillance. To better understand the genetic relationships of the strains, we sequenced the genomes of 539 USA500 MRSA isolates from sterile site infections collected through the EIP between 2005 and 2013 in the United States. USA500 isolates fell into three major clades principally separated by their distribution across different U.S. regions. Clade C1 strains, found principally in the Northeast, were associated with multiple IS<i>256</i> insertion elements in their genomes and higher levels of antibiotic resistance. C2 was associated with Southern states, and E1 was associated with Western states. C1 and C2 strains all shared a frameshift in the gene encoding AdsA surface-attached surface protein. We propose that the term "USA500" should be used for CC8 strains sharing a recent common ancestor with the C1, C2, and E1 strains but not in the USA300 group.<b>IMPORTANCE</b> In this work, we have removed some of the confusion surrounding the use of the name "USA500," placed USA500 strains in the context of the CC8 group, and developed a strategy for assignment to subclades based on genome sequence. Our new phylogeny of USA300/USA500 will be a reference point for understanding the genetic adaptations that have allowed multiple highly virulent clonal strains to emerge from within CC8 over the past 50 years.	2018 May-Jun	Frisch, M B; Frisch, MB; Frisch; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Petit, R A; Petit, RA; Petit; Farley, M M; Farley, MM; Farley; Ray, S M; Ray, SM; Ray; Albrecht, V S; Albrecht, VS; Albrecht; Limbago, B M; Limbago, BM; Limbago; Hernandez, J; Hernandez, J; Hernandez; See, I; See, I; See; Satola, S W; Satola, SW; Satola; Read, T D; Read, TD; Read	mSphere
29632354	Multicopy plasmids allow bacteria to escape from fitness trade-offs during evolutionary innovation.	Understanding the mechanisms governing innovation is a central element of evolutionary theory. Novel traits usually arise through mutations in existing genes, but trade-offs between new and ancestral protein functions are pervasive and constrain the evolution of innovation. Classical models posit that evolutionary innovation circumvents the constraints imposed by trade-offs through genetic amplifications, which provide functional redundancy. Bacterial multicopy plasmids provide a paradigmatic example of genetic amplification, yet their role in evolutionary innovation remains largely unexplored. Here, we reconstructed the evolution of a new trait encoded in a multicopy plasmid using TEM-1 β-lactamase as a model system. Through a combination of theory and experimentation, we show that multicopy plasmids promote the coexistence of ancestral and novel traits for dozens of generations, allowing bacteria to escape the evolutionary constraints imposed by trade-offs. Our results suggest that multicopy plasmids are excellent platforms for evolutionary innovation, contributing to explain their extreme abundance in bacteria.	2018 05	Rodriguez-Beltran, Jeronimo; Rodriguez-Beltran, J; Rodriguez-Beltran; Hernandez-Beltran, J Carlos R; Hernandez-Beltran, JCR; Hernandez-Beltran; DelaFuente, Javier; DelaFuente, J; DelaFuente; Escudero, Jose A; Escudero, JA; Escudero; Fuentes-Hernandez, Ayari; Fuentes-Hernandez, A; Fuentes-Hernandez; MacLean, R Craig; MacLean, RC; MacLean; Peña-Miller, Rafael; Peña-Miller, R; Peña-Miller; San Millan, Alvaro; San Millan, A; San Millan	Nat Ecol Evol
29760688	Dissecting the Acid Stress Response of <i>Rhizobium tropici</i> CIAT 899.	<i>Rhizobium tropici</i> CIAT899 is a nodule-forming α-proteobacterium displaying intrinsic resistance to several abiotic stress conditions such as low pH and high temperatures, which are common in tropical environments. It is a good competitor for <i>Phaseolus vulgaris</i> (common bean) nodule occupancy at low pH values, however little is known about the genetic and physiological basis of the tolerance to acidic conditions. To identify genes in <i>R. tropici</i> involved in pH stress response we combined two different approaches: (1) A Tn<i>5</i> mutant library of <i>R. tropici</i> CIAT899 was screened and 26 acid-sensitive mutants were identified. For 17 of these mutants, the transposon insertion sites could be identified. (2) We also studied the transcriptomes of cells grown under different pH conditions using RNA-Seq. RNA was extracted from cells grown for several generations in minimal medium at 6.8 or 4.5 (adapted cells). In addition, we acid-shocked cells pre-grown at pH 6.8 for 45 min at pH 4.5. Of the 6,289 protein-coding genes annotated in the genome of <i>R. tropici</i> CIAT 899, 383 were differentially expressed under acidic conditions (pH 4.5) vs. control condition (pH 6.8). Three hundred and fifty one genes were induced and 32 genes were repressed; only 11 genes were induced upon acid shock. The acid stress response of <i>R. tropici</i> CIAT899 is versatile: we found genes encoding response regulators and membrane transporters, enzymes involved in amino acid and carbohydrate metabolism and proton extrusion, in addition to several hypothetical genes. Our findings enhance our understanding of the core genes that are important during the acid stress response in <i>R. tropici</i>.	2018	Guerrero-Castro, Julio; Guerrero-Castro, J; Guerrero-Castro; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	Front Microbiol
29774096	GSTM3 and GSTP1: novel players driving tumor progression in cervical cancer.	The molecular processes and proteomic markers leading to tumor progression (TP) in cervical cancer (CC) are either unknown or only partially understood. TP affects metabolic and regulatory mechanisms that can be identified as proteomic changes. To identify which proteins are differentially expressed and to understand the mechanisms of cancer progression, we analyzed the dynamics of the tumor proteome in CC cell lines. This analysis revealed two proteins that are up-regulated during TP, GSTM3 and GSTP1. These proteins are involved in cell maintenance, cell survival and the cellular stress response via the NF-κB and MAP kinase pathways during TP. Furthermore, GSTM3 and GSTP1 knockdown showed that evasion of apoptosis was affected, and tumor proliferation was significantly reduced. Our data indicate the critical role of GST proteins in the regulation and progression of cervical cancer cells. Hence, we suggest GSTM3 and GSTP1 as novel biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets for treating cervical cancer.	2018 Apr	Checa-Rojas, Alberto; Checa-Rojas, A; Checa-Rojas; Delgadillo-Silva, Luis Fernando; Delgadillo-Silva, LF; Delgadillo-Silva; Velasco-Herrera, Martín Del Castillo; Velasco-Herrera, MDC; Velasco-Herrera; Andrade-Domínguez, Andrés; Andrade-Domínguez, A; Andrade-Domínguez; Gil, Jeovanis; Gil, J; Gil; Santillán, Orlando; Santillán, O; Santillán; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Toledo-Leyva, Alfredo; Toledo-Leyva, A; Toledo-Leyva; Ramírez-Torres, Alberto; Ramírez-Torres, A; Ramírez-Torres; Talamas-Rohana, Patricia; Talamas-Rohana, P; Talamas-Rohana; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara	Oncotarget
29459707	Hologenomic adaptations underlying the evolution of sanguivory in the common vampire bat.	Adaptation to specialized diets often requires modifications at both genomic and microbiome levels. We applied a hologenomic approach to the common vampire bat (Desmodus rotundus), one of the only three obligate blood-feeding (sanguivorous) mammals, to study the evolution of its complex dietary adaptation. Specifically, we assembled its high-quality reference genome (scaffold N50 = 26.9 Mb, contig N50 = 36.6 kb) and gut metagenome, and compared them against those of insectivorous, frugivorous and carnivorous bats. Our analyses showed a particular common vampire bat genomic landscape regarding integrated viral elements, a dietary and phylogenetic influence on gut microbiome taxonomic and functional profiles, and that both genetic elements harbour key traits related to the nutritional (for example, vitamin and lipid shortage) and non-nutritional (for example, nitrogen waste and osmotic homeostasis) challenges of sanguivory. These findings highlight the value of a holistic study of both the host and its microbiota when attempting to decipher adaptations underlying radical dietary lifestyles.	2018 04	Zepeda Mendoza, M Lisandra; Zepeda Mendoza, ML; Zepeda Mendoza; Xiong, Zijun; Xiong, Z; Xiong; Escalera-Zamudio, Marina; Escalera-Zamudio, M; Escalera-Zamudio; Runge, Anne Kathrine; Runge, AK; Runge; Thézé, Julien; Thézé, J; Thézé; Streicker, Daniel; Streicker, D; Streicker; Frank, Hannah K; Frank, HK; Frank; Loza-Rubio, Elizabeth; Loza-Rubio, E; Loza-Rubio; Liu, Shengmao; Liu, S; Liu; Ryder, Oliver A; Ryder, OA; Ryder; Samaniego Castruita, Jose Alfredo; Samaniego Castruita, JA; Samaniego Castruita; Katzourakis, Aris; Katzourakis, A; Katzourakis; Pacheco, George; Pacheco, G; Pacheco; Taboada, Blanca; Taboada, B; Taboada; Löber, Ulrike; Löber, U; Löber; Pybus, Oliver G; Pybus, OG; Pybus; Li, Yang; Li, Y; Li; Rojas-Anaya, Edith; Rojas-Anaya, E; Rojas-Anaya; Bohmann, Kristine; Bohmann, K; Bohmann; Carmona Baez, Aldo; Carmona Baez, A; Carmona Baez; Arias, Carlos F; Arias, CF; Arias; Liu, Shiping; Liu, S; Liu; Greenwood, Alex D; Greenwood, AD; Greenwood; Bertelsen, Mads F; Bertelsen, MF; Bertelsen; White, Nicole E; White, NE; White; Bunce, Michael; Bunce, M; Bunce; Zhang, Guojie; Zhang, G; Zhang; Sicheritz-Pontén, Thomas; Sicheritz-Pontén, T; Sicheritz-Pontén; Gilbert, M P Thomas; Gilbert, MPT; Gilbert	Nat Ecol Evol
29619919	Polyamines are required for normal growth in Sinorhizobium meliloti.	Polyamines (PAs) are ubiquitous polycations derived from basic l-amino acids whose physiological roles are still being defined. Their biosynthesis and functions in nitrogen-fixing rhizobia such as Sinorhizobium meliloti have not been extensively investigated. Thin layer chromatographic and mass spectrometric analyses showed that S. meliloti Rm8530 produces the PAs, putrescine (Put), spermidine (Spd) and homospermidine (HSpd), in their free forms and norspermidine (NSpd) in a form bound to macromolecules. The S. meliloti genome encodes two putative ornithine decarboxylases (ODC) for Put synthesis. Activity assays with the purified enzymes showed that ODC2 (SMc02983) decarboxylates both ornithine and lysine. ODC1 (SMa0680) decarboxylates only ornithine. An odc1 mutant was similar to the wild-type in ODC activity, PA production and growth. In comparison to the wild-type, an odc2 mutant had 45 % as much ODC activity and its growth rates were reduced by 42, 14 and 44 % under non-stress, salt stress or acid stress conditions, respectively. The odc2 mutant produced only trace levels of Put, Spd and HSpd. Wild-type phenotypes were restored when the mutant was grown in cultures supplemented with 1 mM Put or Spd or when the odc2 gene was introduced in trans. odc2 gene expression was increased under acid stress and reduced under salt stress and with exogenous Put or Spd. An odc1 odc2 double mutant had phenotypes similar to the odc2 mutant. These results indicate that ODC2 is the major enzyme for Put synthesis in S. meliloti and that PAs are required for normal growth in vitro.	2018 04	Becerra-Rivera, Victor A; Becerra-Rivera, VA; Becerra-Rivera; Bergström, Ed; Bergström, E; Bergström; Thomas-Oates, Jane; Thomas-Oates, J; Thomas-Oates; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn	Microbiology (Reading)
29567733	Draft Genome Sequences of Endophytic Isolates of Klebsiella variicola and Klebsiella pneumoniae Obtained from the Same Sugarcane Plant.	Endophytic <i>Klebsiella variicola</i> KvMx2 and <i>Klebsiella pneumoniae</i> KpMx1 isolates obtained from the same sugarcane stem were used for whole-genome sequencing. The genomes revealed clear differences in essential genes for plant growth, development, and detoxification, as well as nitrogen fixation, catalases, cellulases, and shared virulence factors described in the <i>K. pneumoniae</i> pathogen.	2018 Mar	Reyna-Flores, Fernando; Reyna-Flores, F; Reyna-Flores; Barrios-Camacho, Humberto; Barrios-Camacho, H; Barrios-Camacho; Dantán-González, Edgar; Dantán-González, E; Dantán-González; Ramírez-Trujillo, José Augusto; Ramírez-Trujillo, JA; Ramírez-Trujillo; Lozano Aguirre Beltrán, Luis Fernando; Lozano Aguirre Beltrán, LF; Lozano Aguirre Beltrán; Rodríguez-Medina, Nadia; Rodríguez-Medina, N; Rodríguez-Medina; Garza-Ramos, Ulises; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos; Suárez-Rodríguez, Ramón; Suárez-Rodríguez, R; Suárez-Rodríguez	Genome Announc
29519840	Complete Genome Sequence of the Symbiotic Strain Bradyrhizobium icense LMTR 13<sup>T</sup>, Isolated from Lima Bean (Phaseolus lunatus) in Peru.	The complete genome sequence of <i>Bradyrhizobium icense</i> LMTR 13<sup>T</sup>, a root nodule bacterium isolated from the legume <i>Phaseolus lunatus</i>, is reported here. The genome consists of a circular 8,322,773-bp chromosome which codes for a large and novel symbiotic island as well as genes putatively involved in soil and root colonization.	2018 Mar	Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Zúñiga-Dávila, Doris; Zúñiga-Dávila, D; Zúñiga-Dávila; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Genome Announc
29524395	Headgroup hydroxylation by OlsE occurs at the C4 position of ornithine lipid and is widespread in proteobacteria and bacteroidetes.	Amino acid-containing acyloxyacyl lipids are composed of a 3-hydroxy fatty acid amide-bound to the α-amino group of an amino acid. A second fatty acid is ester-linked to the 3-hydroxy group of the first fatty acid. Most commonly, ornithine is the headgroup of these lipids, but glycine, serineglycine, glutamine and lysine have also been described in bacteria. Ornithine lipids (OL) can be synthesized by about 50% of the sequenced bacterial species, and several covalent modifications of its basic structure have been described. The OL hydroxylase OlsE is widespread in Rhizobium and Agrobacterium species and is responsible for introducing a hydroxyl group at a hence unknown position within the ornithine headgroup causing the formation of the OL named S2. Using NMR on purified OL S2, we show that the OlsE-mediated hydroxylation takes place at the C-4 position of the ornithine headgroup. Furthermore, we identify a hydroxylase in the genome of Pseudopedobacter saltans, distantly related to OlsE from α-proteobacteria, able to hydroxylate the headgroup of both ornithine lipids and lysine lipids. A homology search with the amino acid sequence of this hydroxylase allows us to predict that OL headgroup hydroxylation is not restricted to a few α-proteobacteria, but is apparently also common in many genera belonging to the Cytophaga-Flavobacterium-Bacteroidetes (CFB) group of bacteria.	2018 07	Hölzl, Georg; Hölzl, G; Hölzl; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Vences-Guzmán, Miguel Angel; Vences-Guzmán, MA; Vences-Guzmán; Gisch, Nicolas; Gisch, N; Gisch	Chem Phys Lipids
29222443	Metabolic versatility of small archaea Micrarchaeota and Parvarchaeota.	Small acidophilic archaea belonging to Micrarchaeota and Parvarchaeota phyla are known to physically interact with some Thermoplasmatales members in nature. However, due to a lack of cultivation and limited genomes on hand, their biodiversity, metabolisms, and physiologies remain largely unresolved. Here, we obtained 39 genomes from acid mine drainage (AMD) and hot spring environments around the world. 16S rRNA gene based analyses revealed that Parvarchaeota were only detected in AMD and hot spring habitats, while Micrarchaeota were also detected in others including soil, peat, hypersaline mat, and freshwater, suggesting a considerable higher diversity and broader than expected habitat distribution for this phylum. Despite their small genomes (0.64-1.08 Mb), these archaea may contribute to carbon and nitrogen cycling by degrading multiple saccharides and proteins, and produce ATP via aerobic respiration and fermentation. Additionally, we identified several syntenic genes with homology to those involved in iron oxidation in six Parvarchaeota genomes, suggesting their potential role in iron cycling. However, both phyla lack biosynthetic pathways for amino acids and nucleotides, suggesting that they likely scavenge these biomolecules from the environment and/or other community members. Moreover, low-oxygen enrichments in laboratory confirmed our speculation that both phyla are microaerobic/anaerobic, based on several specific genes identified in them. Furthermore, phylogenetic analyses provide insights into the close evolutionary history of energy related functionalities between both phyla with Thermoplasmatales. These results expand our understanding of these elusive archaea by revealing their involvement in carbon, nitrogen, and iron cycling, and suggest their potential interactions with Thermoplasmatales on genomic scale.	2018 03	Chen, Lin-Xing; Chen, LX; Chen; Méndez-García, Celia; Méndez-García, C; Méndez-García; Dombrowski, Nina; Dombrowski, N; Dombrowski; Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis E; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Eloe-Fadrosh, Emiley A; Eloe-Fadrosh, EA; Eloe-Fadrosh; Fang, Bao-Zhu; Fang, BZ; Fang; Luo, Zhen-Hao; Luo, ZH; Luo; Tan, Sha; Tan, S; Tan; Zhi, Xiao-Yang; Zhi, XY; Zhi; Hua, Zheng-Shuang; Hua, ZS; Hua; Martinez-Romero, Esperanza; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Woyke, Tanja; Woyke, T; Woyke; Huang, Li-Nan; Huang, LN; Huang; Sánchez, Jesús; Sánchez, J; Sánchez; Peláez, Ana Isabel; Peláez, AI; Peláez; Ferrer, Manuel; Ferrer, M; Ferrer; Baker, Brett J; Baker, BJ; Baker; Shu, Wen-Sheng; Shu, WS; Shu	ISME J
29130376	The Cuticle Mutant eca2 Modifies Plant Defense Responses to Biotrophic and Necrotrophic Pathogens and Herbivory Insects.	We isolated previously several Arabidopsis thaliana mutants with constitutive expression of the early microbe-associated molecular pattern-induced gene ATL2, named eca (expresión constitutiva de ATL2). Here, we further explored the interaction of eca mutants with pest and pathogens. Of all eca mutants, eca2 was more resistant to a fungal pathogen (Botrytis cinerea) and a bacterial pathogen (Pseudomonas syringae) as well as to a generalist herbivorous insect (Spodoptera littoralis). Permeability of the cuticle is increased in eca2; chemical characterization shows that eca2 has a significant reduction of both cuticular wax and cutin. Additionally, we determined that eca2 did not display a similar compensatory transcriptional response, compared with a previously characterized cuticular mutant, and that resistance to B. cinerea is mediated by the priming of the early and late induced defense responses, including salicylic acid- and jasmonic acid-induced genes. These results suggest that ECA2-dependent responses are involved in the nonhost defense mechanism against biotrophic and necrotrophic pathogens and against a generalist insect by modulation and priming of innate immunity and late defense responses. Making eca2 an interesting model to characterize the molecular basis for plant defenses against different biotic interactions and to study the initial events that take place in the cuticle surface of the aerial organs.	2018 03	Blanc, Catherine; Blanc, C; Blanc; Coluccia, Fania; Coluccia, F; Coluccia; L'Haridon, Floriane; L'Haridon, F; L'Haridon; Torres, Martha; Torres, M; Torres; Ortiz-Berrocal, Marlene; Ortiz-Berrocal, M; Ortiz-Berrocal; Stahl, Elia; Stahl, E; Stahl; Reymond, Philippe; Reymond, P; Reymond; Schreiber, Lukas; Schreiber, L; Schreiber; Nawrath, Christiane; Nawrath, C; Nawrath; Métraux, Jean-Pierre; Métraux, JP; Métraux; Serrano, Mario; Serrano, M; Serrano	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
30040192	Using RegulonDB, the Escherichia coli K-12 Gene Regulatory Transcriptional Network Database.	In RegulonDB, for over 25 years, we have been gathering knowledge by manual curation from original scientific literature on the regulation of transcription initiation and genome organization in transcription units of the Escherichia coli K-12 genome. This unit describes six basic protocols that can serve as a guiding introduction to the main content of the current version (v9.4) of this electronic resource. These protocols include general navigation as well as searching for specific objects such as genes, gene products, transcription units, promoters, transcription factors, coexpression, and genetic sensory response units or GENSOR Units. In these protocols, the user will find an initial introduction to the concepts pertinent to the protocol, the content obtained when performing the given navigation, and the necessary resources for carrying out the protocol. This easy-to-follow presentation should help anyone interested in quickly seeing all that is currently offered in RegulonDB, including position weight matrices of transcription factors, coexpression values based on published microarrays, and the GENSOR Units unique to RegulonDB that offer regulatory mechanisms in the context of their signals and metabolic consequences. © 2018 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.	2018 03	Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; Bustamante, Víctor H; Bustamante, VH; Bustamante; Alquicira-Hernández, Kevin; Alquicira-Hernández, K; Alquicira-Hernández; García-Sotelo, Jair S; García-Sotelo, JS; García-Sotelo; García-Alonso, Delfino; García-Alonso, D; García-Alonso; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Curr Protoc Bioinformatics
29453341	Transcriptomics reveals a cross-modulatory effect between riboflavin and iron and outlines responses to riboflavin biosynthesis and uptake in Vibrio cholerae.	Vibrio cholerae, a pandemic diarrheagenic bacterium, is able to synthesize the essential vitamin riboflavin through the riboflavin biosynthetic pathway (RBP) and also to internalize it through the RibN importer. In bacteria, the way riboflavin biosynthesis and uptake functions correlate is unclear. To gain insights into the role of the riboflavin provision pathways in the physiology of V. cholerae, we analyzed the transcriptomics response to extracellular riboflavin and to deletions of ribD (RBP-deficient strain) or ribN. Many riboflavin-responsive genes were previously reported to belong to the iron regulon, including various iron uptake genes. Real time PCR analysis confirmed this effect and further documented that reciprocally, iron regulates RBP and ribN genes in a riboflavin-dependent way. A subset of genes were responding to both ribD and ribN deletions. However, in the subset of genes specifically affected in the ∆ribD strain, the functional terms protein folding and oxidation reduction process were enriched, as determined by a Gene Ontology analysis. In the gene subset specifically affected in the ∆ribN strain, the cytochrome complex assembly functional term was enriched. Results suggest that iron and riboflavin interrelate to regulate its respective provision genes and that both common and specific effects of biosynthesized and internalized riboflavin exist.	2018 02	Sepúlveda-Cisternas, Ignacio; Sepúlveda-Cisternas, I; Sepúlveda-Cisternas; Lozano Aguirre, Luis; Lozano Aguirre, L; Lozano Aguirre; Fuentes Flores, Andrés; Fuentes Flores, A; Fuentes Flores; Vásquez Solis de Ovando, Ignacio; Vásquez Solis de Ovando, I; Vásquez Solis de Ovando; García-Angulo, Víctor Antonio; García-Angulo, VA; García-Angulo	Sci Rep
29462877	Characterization of the Symbiotic Nitrogen-Fixing Common Bean Low Phytic Acid (lpa1) Mutant Response to Water Stress.	The common bean (<i>Phaseolus vulgaris</i> L.) <i>low phytic acid</i> (<i>lpa1</i>) biofortified genotype produces seeds with improved nutritional characteristics and does not display negative pleiotropic effects. Here we demonstrated that <i>lpa1</i> plants establish an efficient nitrogen-fixing symbiosis with <i>Rhizobium etli</i> CE3. The <i>lpa1</i> nodules showed a higher expression of nodule-function related genes than the nodules of the parental wild type genotype (BAT 93). We analyzed the response to water stress of <i>lpa1</i> vs. BAT 93 plants grown under fertilized or under symbiotic N₂-fixation conditions. Water stress was induced by water withholding (up to 14% soil moisture) to fertilized or <i>R. etli</i> nodulated plants previously grown with normal irrigation. The fertilized <i>lpa1</i> plants showed milder water stress symptoms during the water deployment period and after the rehydration recovery period when <i>lpa1</i> plants showed less biomass reduction. The symbiotic water-stressed <i>lpa1</i> plants showed decreased nitrogenase activity that coincides with decreased sucrose synthase gene expression in nodules; lower turgor weight to dry weight (DW) ratio, which has been associated with higher drought resistance index; downregulation of carbon/nitrogen (C/N)-related and upregulation of stress-related genes. Higher expression of stress-related genes was also observed in bacteroids of stressed <i>lpa1</i> plants that also displayed very high expression of the symbiotic <i>cbb</i>₃ oxidase (<i>fixN</i>d).	2018 Feb	Chiozzotto, Remo; Chiozzotto, R; Chiozzotto; Ramírez, Mario; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Talbi, Chouhra; Talbi, C; Talbi; Cominelli, Eleonora; Cominelli, E; Cominelli; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Sparvoli, Francesca; Sparvoli, F; Sparvoli; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	Genes (Basel)
29456457	Effect of ovarian cancer ascites on SKOV-3 cells proteome: new proteins associated with aggressive phenotype in epithelial ovarian cancer.	Epithelial ovarian cancer is the second most lethal gynecological cancer worldwide. Ascites can be found in all clinical stages, however in advanced disease stages IIIC and IV it is more frequent and could be massive, associated with worse prognosis. Due to the above, it was our interest to understanding how the ascites of ovarian cancer patients induces the mechanisms by which the cells present in it acquire a more aggressive phenotype and to know new proteins associated to this process.	2018	Toledo-Leyva, Alfredo; Toledo-Leyva, A; Toledo-Leyva; Villegas-Pineda, Julio César; Villegas-Pineda, JC; Villegas-Pineda; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Gallardo-Rincón, Dolores; Gallardo-Rincón, D; Gallardo-Rincón; Talamás-Rohana, Patricia; Talamás-Rohana, P; Talamás-Rohana	Proteome Sci
29386127	The Biological Role of the ζ Subunit as Unidirectional Inhibitor of the F<sub>1</sub>F<sub>O</sub>-ATPase of Paracoccus denitrificans.	The biological roles of the three natural F<sub>1</sub>F<sub>O</sub>-ATPase inhibitors, ε, ζ, and IF<sub>1</sub>, on cell physiology remain controversial. The ζ subunit is a useful model for deletion studies since it mimics mitochondrial IF<sub>1</sub>, but in the F<sub>1</sub>F<sub>O</sub>-ATPase of Paracoccus denitrificans (PdF<sub>1</sub>F<sub>O</sub>), it is a monogenic and supernumerary subunit. Here, we constructed a P. denitrificans 1222 derivative (PdΔζ) with a deleted ζ gene to determine its role in cell growth and bioenergetics. The results show that the lack of ζ in vivo strongly restricts respiratory P. denitrificans growth, and this is restored by complementation in trans with an exogenous ζ gene. Removal of ζ increased the coupled PdF<sub>1</sub>F<sub>O</sub>-ATPase activity without affecting the PdF<sub>1</sub>F<sub>O</sub>-ATP synthase turnover, and the latter was not affected at all by ζ reconstitution in vitro. Therefore, ζ works as a unidirectional pawl-ratchet inhibitor of the PdF<sub>1</sub>F<sub>O</sub>-ATPase nanomotor favoring the ATP synthase turnover to improve respiratory cell growth and bioenergetics.	2018 01	Mendoza-Hoffmann, Francisco; Mendoza-Hoffmann, F; Mendoza-Hoffmann; Pérez-Oseguera, Ángeles; Pérez-Oseguera, Á; Pérez-Oseguera; Cevallos, Miguel Ángel; Cevallos, MÁ; Cevallos; Zarco-Zavala, Mariel; Zarco-Zavala, M; Zarco-Zavala; Ortega, Raquel; Ortega, R; Ortega; Peña-Segura, Claudia; Peña-Segura, C; Peña-Segura; Espinoza-Simón, Emilio; Espinoza-Simón, E; Espinoza-Simón; Uribe-Carvajal, Salvador; Uribe-Carvajal, S; Uribe-Carvajal; García-Trejo, José J; García-Trejo, JJ; García-Trejo	Cell Rep
29375522	Identification of <i>lptA, lpxE</i>, and <i>lpxO</i>, Three Genes Involved in the Remodeling of <i>Brucella</i> Cell Envelope.	The brucellae are facultative intracellular bacteria that cause a worldwide extended zoonosis. One of the pathogenicity mechanisms of these bacteria is their ability to avoid rapid recognition by innate immunity because of a reduction of the pathogen-associated molecular pattern (PAMP) of the lipopolysaccharide (LPS), free-lipids, and other envelope molecules. We investigated the <i>Brucella</i> homologs of <i>lptA, lpxE</i>, and <i>lpxO</i>, three genes that in some pathogens encode enzymes that mask the LPS PAMP by upsetting the core-lipid A charge/hydrophobic balance. <i>Brucella lptA</i>, which encodes a putative ethanolamine transferase, carries a frame-shift in <i>B. abortus</i> but not in other <i>Brucella</i> spp. and phylogenetic neighbors like the opportunistic pathogen <i>Ochrobactrum anthropi.</i> Consistent with the genomic evidence, a <i>B. melitensis lptA</i> mutant lacked lipid A-linked ethanolamine and displayed increased sensitivity to polymyxin B (a surrogate of innate immunity bactericidal peptides), while <i>B. abortus</i> carrying <i>B. melitensis lptA</i> displayed increased resistance. <i>Brucella lpxE</i> encodes a putative phosphatase acting on lipid A or on a free-lipid that is highly conserved in all brucellae and <i>O. anthropi.</i> Although we found no evidence of lipid A dephosphorylation, a <i>B. abortus lpxE</i> mutant showed increased polymyxin B sensitivity, suggesting the existence of a hitherto unidentified free-lipid involved in bactericidal peptide resistance. Gene <i>lpxO</i> putatively encoding an acyl hydroxylase carries a frame-shift in all brucellae except <i>B. microti</i> and is intact in <i>O. anthropi</i>. Free-lipid analysis revealed that <i>lpxO</i> corresponded to <i>olsC</i>, the gene coding for the ornithine lipid (OL) acyl hydroxylase active in <i>O. anthropi</i> and <i>B. microti</i>, while <i>B. abortus</i> carrying the <i>olsC</i> of <i>O. anthropi</i> and <i>B. microti</i> synthesized hydroxylated OLs. Interestingly, mutants in <i>lptA, lpxE</i>, or <i>olsC</i> were not attenuated in dendritic cells or mice. This lack of an obvious effect on virulence together with the presence of the intact homolog genes in <i>O. anthropi</i> and <i>B. microti</i> but not in other brucellae suggests that LptA, LpxE, or OL β-hydroxylase do not significantly alter the PAMP properties of <i>Brucella</i> LPS and free-lipids and are therefore not positively selected during the adaptation to intracellular life.	2017	Conde-Álvarez, Raquel; Conde-Álvarez, R; Conde-Álvarez; Palacios-Chaves, Leyre; Palacios-Chaves, L; Palacios-Chaves; Gil-Ramírez, Yolanda; Gil-Ramírez, Y; Gil-Ramírez; Salvador-Bescós, Miriam; Salvador-Bescós, M; Salvador-Bescós; Bárcena-Varela, Marina; Bárcena-Varela, M; Bárcena-Varela; Aragón-Aranda, Beatriz; Aragón-Aranda, B; Aragón-Aranda; Martínez-Gómez, Estrella; Martínez-Gómez, E; Martínez-Gómez; Zúñiga-Ripa, Amaia; Zúñiga-Ripa, A; Zúñiga-Ripa; de Miguel, María J; de Miguel, MJ; de Miguel; Bartholomew, Toby Leigh; Bartholomew, TL; Bartholomew; Hanniffy, Sean; Hanniffy, S; Hanniffy; Grilló, María-Jesús; Grilló, MJ; Grilló; Vences-Guzmán, Miguel Ángel; Vences-Guzmán, MÁ; Vences-Guzmán; Bengoechea, José A; Bengoechea, JA; Bengoechea; Arce-Gorvel, Vilma; Arce-Gorvel, V; Arce-Gorvel; Gorvel, Jean-Pierre; Gorvel, JP; Gorvel; Moriyón, Ignacio; Moriyón, I; Moriyón; Iriarte, Maite; Iriarte, M; Iriarte	Front Microbiol
29689657	Genome misclassification of Klebsiella variicola and Klebsiella quasipneumoniae isolated from plants, animals and humans.	Due to the fact that K. variicola, K. quasipneumoniae and K. pneumoniae are closely related bacterial species, misclassification can occur due to mistakes either in normal biochemical tests or during submission to public databases. The objective of this work was to identify K. variicola and K. quasipneumoniae genomes misclassified in GenBank database.	2018 Jan-Feb	Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Rodríguez-Medina, Nadia; Rodríguez-Medina, N; Rodríguez-Medina; Beltrán-Rojel, Marilu; Beltrán-Rojel, M; Beltrán-Rojel; Silva-Sánchez, Jesús; Silva-Sánchez, J; Silva-Sánchez; Barrios-Camacho, Humberto; Barrios-Camacho, H; Barrios-Camacho; Pérez-Rueda, Ernesto; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda; Garza-Ramos, Ulises; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos	Salud Publica Mex
29689654	Klebsiella variicola and Klebsiella quasipneumoniae with capacity to adapt to clinical and plant settings.	To compare the genetic determinants involved in plant colonization or virulence in the reported genomes of K. variicola, K. quasipneumoniae and K. pneumoniae.	2018 Jan-Feb	Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Rodríguez-Medina, Nadia; Rodríguez-Medina, N; Rodríguez-Medina; Beltrán-Rojel, Marilú; Beltrán-Rojel, M; Beltrán-Rojel; Toribio-Jiménez, Jeiry; Toribio-Jiménez, J; Toribio-Jiménez; Garza-Ramos, Ulises; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos	Salud Publica Mex
29030443	Novel Metabolic Pathway for <i>N</i>-Methylpyrrolidone Degradation in Alicycliphilus sp. Strain BQ1.	The molecular mechanisms underlying the biodegradation of <i>N</i>-methylpyrrolidone (NMP), a widely used industrial solvent that produces skin irritation in humans and is teratogenic in rats, are unknown. <i>Alicycliphilus</i> sp. strain BQ1 degrades NMP. By studying a transposon-tagged mutant unable to degrade NMP, we identified a six-gene cluster (<i>nmpABCDEF</i>) that is transcribed as a polycistronic mRNA and encodes enzymes involved in NMP biodegradation. <i>nmpA</i> and the transposon-affected gene <i>nmpB</i> encode an <i>N</i>-methylhydantoin amidohydrolase that transforms NMP to γ-<i>N</i>-methylaminobutyric acid; this is metabolized by an amino acid oxidase (NMPC), either by demethylation to produce γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) or by deamination to produce succinate semialdehyde (SSA). If GABA is produced, the activity of a GABA aminotransferase (GABA-AT), not encoded in the <i>nmp</i> gene cluster, is needed to generate SSA. SSA is transformed by a succinate semialdehyde dehydrogenase (SSDH) (NMPF) to succinate, which enters the Krebs cycle. The abilities to consume NMP and to utilize it for growth were complemented in the transposon-tagged mutant by use of the <i>nmpABCD</i> genes. Similarly, <i>Escherichia coli</i> MG1655, which has two SSDHs but is unable to grow in NMP, acquired these abilities after functional complementation with these genes. In wild-type (wt) BQ1 cells growing in NMP, GABA was not detected, but SSA was present at double the amount found in cells growing in Luria-Bertani medium (LB), suggesting that GABA is not an intermediate in this pathway. Moreover, <i>E. coli</i> GABA-AT deletion mutants complemented with <i>nmpABCD</i> genes retained the ability to grow in NMP, supporting the possibility that γ-<i>N</i>-methylaminobutyric acid is deaminated to SSA instead of being demethylated to GABA.<b>IMPORTANCE</b><i>N</i>-Methylpyrrolidone is a cyclic amide reported to be biodegradable. However, the metabolic pathway and enzymatic activities for degrading NMP are unknown. By developing molecular biology techniques for <i>Alicycliphilus</i> sp. strain BQ1, an environmental bacterium able to grow in NMP, we identified a six-gene cluster encoding enzymatic activities involved in NMP degradation. These findings set the basis for the study of new enzymatic activities and for the development of biotechnological processes with potential applications in bioremediation.	2018 Jan	Solís-González, Claudia Julieta; Solís-González, CJ; Solís-González; Domínguez-Malfavón, Lilianha; Domínguez-Malfavón, L; Domínguez-Malfavón; Vargas-Suárez, Martín; Vargas-Suárez, M; Vargas-Suárez; Gaytán, Itzel; Gaytán, I; Gaytán; Cevallos, Miguel Ángel; Cevallos, MÁ; Cevallos; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Cruz-Gómez, M Javier; Cruz-Gómez, MJ; Cruz-Gómez; Loza-Tavera, Herminia; Loza-Tavera, H; Loza-Tavera	Appl Environ Microbiol
29267322	Characterization of Salmonella enterica isolates causing bacteremia in Lima, Peru, using multiple typing methods.	In this study, different molecular typing tools were applied to characterize 95 Salmonella enterica blood isolates collected between 2008 and 2013 from patients at nine public hospitals in Lima, Peru. Combined results of multiplex PCR serotyping, two- and seven-loci multilocus sequence typing (MLST) schemes, serotyping, IS200 amplification and RAPD fingerprints, showed that these infections were caused by eight different serovars: Enteritidis, Typhimurium, Typhi, Choleraesuis, Dublin, Paratyphi A, Paratyphi B and Infantis. Among these, Enteritidis, Typhimurium and Typhi were the most prevalent, representing 45, 36 and 11% of the isolates, respectively. Most isolates (74%) were not resistant to ten primarily used antimicrobial drugs; however, 37% of the strains showed intermediate susceptibility to ciprofloxacin (ISC). Antimicrobial resistance integrons were carried by one Dublin (dfra1 and aadA1) and two Infantis (aadA1) isolates. The two Infantis isolates were multidrug resistant and harbored a large megaplasmid. Amplification of spvC and spvRA regions showed that all Enteritidis (n = 42), Typhimurium (n = 34), Choleraesuis (n = 3) and Dublin (n = 1) isolates carried the Salmonella virulence plasmid (pSV). We conclude that the classic serotyping method can be substituted by the multiplex PCR and, when necessary, sequencing of only one or two loci of the MLST scheme is a valuable tool to confirm the results. The effectiveness and feasibility of different typing tools is discussed.	2017	Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva; Betancor, Laura; Betancor, L; Betancor; García, Coralith; García, C; García; Astocondor, Lizeth; Astocondor, L; Astocondor; Hinostroza, Noemí; Hinostroza, N; Hinostroza; Bisio, Julieta; Bisio, J; Bisio; Rivera, Javier; Rivera, J; Rivera; Perezgasga, Lucía; Perezgasga, L; Perezgasga; Pérez Escanda, Victoria; Pérez Escanda, V; Pérez Escanda; Yim, Lucía; Yim, L; Yim; Jacobs, Jan; Jacobs, J; Jacobs; García-Del Portillo, Francisco; García-Del Portillo, F; García-Del Portillo; SalmoIber CYTED Network; Chabalgoity, José A; Chabalgoity, JA; Chabalgoity; Puente, José L; Puente, JL; Puente	PLoS One
29121239	Overproduction of Sinorhizobium meliloti ArgC (N-acetyl-gamma-glutamyl phosphate reductase) promotes growth delay and inefficient nodules.	argC encodes N-acetyl-gamma-glutamyl phosphate reductase, the enzyme that catalyzes the high-energy-consuming third step in the arginine synthesis pathway. A comparative analysis revealed two translation start sites in argC from Sinorhizobium meliloti. To determine whether both protein versions are synthesized in the organism and their functional role, we obtained genetic constructs with one (1S) or two (2S) start sites, with promoters of low (pspeB) or high (plac) transcriptional rate. The constructs were transferred to the S. meliloti 1021 derivative argC mutant strain. Both protein versions were found in the free-living proteomes, but only ArgC 1S showed post-translational modification. Expression levels from argC 1S were five times higher than those of 2S, when transcribed by plac, and in concordance, its protein activity was 3-fold greater. The overexpression of both versions under plac delayed cellular growth. Inoculation of Medicago sativa plants with the S. meliloti strain harboring the argC 1S under plac induced nodulation but not nitrogen fixation. However, the strain with the argC 2S under the same promoter had a positive phenotype. Overproduction of ArgC protein for the synthesis of arginine induced physiological and symbiotic effects.	2017 Dec	Vargas-Lagunas, Carmen; Vargas-Lagunas, C; Vargas-Lagunas; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Díaz, Rafael; Díaz, R; Díaz; Martínez-Batallar, Gabriel; Martínez-Batallar, G; Martínez-Batallar; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	FEMS Microbiol Lett
29231872	A Deeper Examination of Thorellius atrox Scorpion Venom Components with Omic Techonologies.	This communication reports a further examination of venom gland transcripts and venom composition of the Mexican scorpion <i>Thorellius atrox</i> using RNA-seq and tandem mass spectrometry. The RNA-seq, which was performed with the Illumina protocol, yielded more than 20,000 assembled transcripts. Following a database search and annotation strategy, 160 transcripts were identified, potentially coding for venom components. A novel sequence was identified that potentially codes for a peptide with similarity to spider ω-agatoxins, which act on voltage-gated calcium channels, not known before to exist in scorpion venoms. Analogous transcripts were found in other scorpion species. They could represent members of a new scorpion toxin family, here named omegascorpins. The mass fingerprint by LC-MS identified 135 individual venom components, five of which matched with the theoretical masses of putative peptides translated from the transcriptome. The LC-MS/MS de novo sequencing allowed to reconstruct and identify 42 proteins encoded by assembled transcripts, thus validating the transcriptome analysis. Earlier studies conducted with this scorpion venom permitted the identification of only twenty putative venom components. The present work performed with more powerful and modern omic technologies demonstrates the capacity of accomplishing a deeper characterization of scorpion venom components and the identification of novel molecules with potential applications in biomedicine and the study of ion channel physiology.	2017 12	Romero-Gutierrez, Teresa; Romero-Gutierrez, T; Romero-Gutierrez; Peguero-Sanchez, Esteban; Peguero-Sanchez, E; Peguero-Sanchez; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Batista, Cesar V F; Batista, CVF; Batista; Ortiz, Ernesto; Ortiz, E; Ortiz; Possani, Lourival D; Possani, LD; Possani	Toxins (Basel)
29133310	Convergent origination of a <i>Drosophila</i>-like dosage compensation mechanism in a reptile lineage.	Sex chromosomes differentiated from different ancestral autosomes in various vertebrate lineages. Here, we trace the functional evolution of the XY Chromosomes of the green anole lizard (<i>Anolis carolinensis</i>), on the basis of extensive high-throughput genome, transcriptome and histone modification sequencing data and revisit dosage compensation evolution in representative mammals and birds with substantial new expression data. Our analyses show that <i>Anolis</i> sex chromosomes represent an ancient XY system that originated at least ≈160 million years ago in the ancestor of Iguania lizards, shortly after the separation from the snake lineage. The age of this system approximately coincides with the ages of the avian and two mammalian sex chromosomes systems. To compensate for the almost complete Y Chromosome degeneration, X-linked genes have become twofold up-regulated, restoring ancestral expression levels. The highly efficient dosage compensation mechanism of <i>Anolis</i> represents the only vertebrate case identified so far to fully support Ohno's original dosage compensation hypothesis. Further analyses reveal that X up-regulation occurs only in males and is mediated by a male-specific chromatin machinery that leads to global hyperacetylation of histone H4 at lysine 16 specifically on the X Chromosome. The green anole dosage compensation mechanism is highly reminiscent of that of the fruit fly, <i>Drosophila melanogaster</i> Altogether, our work unveils the convergent emergence of a <i>Drosophila</i>-like dosage compensation mechanism in an ancient reptilian sex chromosome system and highlights that the evolutionary pressures imposed by sex chromosome dosage reductions in different amniotes were resolved in fundamentally different ways.	2017 12	Marin, Ray; Marin, R; Marin; Cortez, Diego; Cortez, D; Cortez; Lamanna, Francesco; Lamanna, F; Lamanna; Pradeepa, Madapura M; Pradeepa, MM; Pradeepa; Leushkin, Evgeny; Leushkin, E; Leushkin; Julien, Philippe; Julien, P; Julien; Liechti, Angélica; Liechti, A; Liechti; Halbert, Jean; Halbert, J; Halbert; Brüning, Thoomke; Brüning, T; Brüning; Mössinger, Katharina; Mössinger, K; Mössinger; Trefzer, Timo; Trefzer, T; Trefzer; Conrad, Christian; Conrad, C; Conrad; Kerver, Halie N; Kerver, HN; Kerver; Wade, Juli; Wade, J; Wade; Tschopp, Patrick; Tschopp, P; Tschopp; Kaessmann, Henrik; Kaessmann, H; Kaessmann	Genome Res
29146860	Complete Genome Sequence of a Novel Nonnodulating <i>Rhizobium</i> Species Isolated from <i>Agave americana</i> L. Rhizosphere.	We report here the complete genome sequence of <i>Rhizobium</i> sp. strain ACO-34A, isolated from <i>Agave americana</i> L. rhizosphere. No common <i>nod</i> genes were found, but there were <i>nif</i> genes for nitrogen fixing. A low average nucleotide identity to reported species supports its designation as a novel <i>Rhizobium</i> species that has a complete ribosomal operon in a plasmid.	2017 Nov	Ruíz-Valdiviezo, Víctor Manuel; Ruíz-Valdiviezo, VM; Ruíz-Valdiviezo; Rogel-Hernandez, Marco Antonio; Rogel-Hernandez, MA; Rogel-Hernandez; Guerrero, Gabriela; Guerrero, G; Guerrero; Rincón-Molina, Clara Ivette; Rincón-Molina, CI; Rincón-Molina; García-Perez, Luis Galdino; García-Perez, LG; García-Perez; Gutiérrez-Miceli, Federico Antonio; Gutiérrez-Miceli, FA; Gutiérrez-Miceli; Villalobos-Maldonado, Juan José; Villalobos-Maldonado, JJ; Villalobos-Maldonado; López-López, Aline; López-López, A; López-López; Martinez-Romero, Esperanza; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Rincón-Rosales, Reiner; Rincón-Rosales, R; Rincón-Rosales	Genome Announc
29136456	The intimate talk between plants and microorganisms at the leaf surface.	The plant epidermis or cuticle is constantly exposed to external and internal environmental factors, including an enriched and diverse community of bacteria, yeast, fungi, viruses, and mites. It is not only where the plant has its first physical barrier, but also where organisms can be recognized and potentially where the plant defense responses can be triggered. The plant cuticle is a polymeric composite formed by an array of structurally and chemically heterogeneous compounds, including cutin and wax. A few studies have shown that cuticular components are essential and important drivers of the structure and size of the bacterial community. On the other hand, cuticular components are also important for both pathogens and plants, to initiate the pre-invasion and infection process and to activate the innate immune response, respectively. In this review, we explore current knowledge on the role of the cuticle during the intimate interactions between plants and microorganisms, in particular pathogenic and non-pathogenic bacteria and fungi. Finally, we propose new perspectives on the potential use of this information for agriculture.	2017 11	Aragón, Wendy; Aragón, W; Aragón; Reina-Pinto, José Juan; Reina-Pinto, JJ; Reina-Pinto; Serrano, Mario; Serrano, M; Serrano	J Exp Bot
28893905	Lysine acetylation stoichiometry and proteomics analyses reveal pathways regulated by sirtuin 1 in human cells.	Lysine acetylation is a widespread posttranslational modification affecting many biological pathways. Recent studies indicate that acetylated lysine residues mainly exhibit low acetylation occupancy, but challenges in sample preparation and analysis make it difficult to confidently assign these numbers, limiting understanding of their biological significance. Here, we tested three common sample preparation methods to determine their suitability for assessing acetylation stoichiometry in three human cell lines, identifying the acetylation occupancy in more than 1,300 proteins from each cell line. The stoichiometric analysis in combination with quantitative proteomics also enabled us to explore their functional roles. We found that higher abundance of the deacetylase sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) correlated with lower acetylation occupancy and lower levels of ribosomal proteins, including those involved in ribosome biogenesis and rRNA processing. Treatment with the SIRT1 inhibitor EX-527 confirmed SIRT1's role in the regulation of pre-rRNA synthesis and processing. Specifically, proteins involved in pre-rRNA transcription, including subunits of the polymerase I and SL1 complexes and the RNA polymerase I-specific transcription initiation factor RRN3, were up-regulated after SIRT1 inhibition. Moreover, many protein effectors and regulators of pre-rRNA processing needed for rRNA maturation were also up-regulated after EX-527 treatment with the outcome that pre-rRNA and 28S rRNA levels also increased. More generally, we found that SIRT1 inhibition down-regulates metabolic pathways, including glycolysis and pyruvate metabolism. Together, these results provide the largest data set thus far of lysine acetylation stoichiometry (available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD005903) and set the stage for further biological investigations of this central posttranslational modification.	2017 11	Gil, Jeovanis; Gil, J; Gil; Ramírez-Torres, Alberto; Ramírez-Torres, A; Ramírez-Torres; Chiappe, Diego; Chiappe, D; Chiappe; Luna-Peñaloza, Juan; Luna-Peñaloza, J; Luna-Peñaloza; Fernandez-Reyes, Francis C; Fernandez-Reyes, FC; Fernandez-Reyes; Arcos-Encarnación, Bolivar; Arcos-Encarnación, B; Arcos-Encarnación; Contreras, Sandra; Contreras, S; Contreras; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara	J Biol Chem
27760387	Bacterial lipid diversity.	The glycerophospholipids phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylglycerol (PG), and cardiolipin (CL) are major structural components of bacterial membranes. In some bacteria, phosphatidylcholine or phosphatidylinositol and its derivatives form part of the membrane. PG or CL can be modified with the amino acid residues lysine, alanine, or arginine. Diacylglycerol is the lipid anchor from which syntheses of phosphorus-free glycerolipids, such as glycolipids, sulfolipids, or homoserine-derived lipids initiate. Many membrane lipids are subject to turnover and some of them are recycled. Other lipids associated with the membrane include isoprenoids and their derivatives such as hopanoids. Ornithine-containing lipids are widespread in Bacteria but absent in Archaea and Eukarya. Some lipids are probably associated exclusively with the outer membrane of many bacteria, i.e. lipopolysaccharides, sphingolipids, or sulfonolipids. For certain specialized membrane functions, specific lipid structures might be required. Upon cyst formation in Azotobacter vinelandii, phenolic lipids are accumulated in the membrane. Anammox bacteria contain ladderane lipids in the membrane surrounding the anammoxosome organelle, presumably to impede the passage of highly toxic compounds generated during the anammox reaction. Considering that present knowledge on bacterial lipids was obtained from only a few bacterial species, we are probably only starting to unravel the full scale of lipid diversity in bacteria. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Bacterial Lipids edited by Russell E. Bishop.	2017 Nov	López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	Biochim Biophys Acta Mol Cell Biol Lipids
29192074	Draft Genome Sequence of <i>Leuconostoc citreum</i> CW28 Isolated from Pozol, a Pre-Hispanic Fermented Corn Beverage.	<i>Leuconostoc citreum</i> CW28 was isolated from pozol, a Mayan fermented corn beverage. This strain produces a cell-associated inulosucrase, the first described in bacteria. Its draft genome sequence, announced here, has an estimated size of 1.98 Mb and harbors 1,915 coding genes, 12 rRNAs, 68 tRNAs, 17 putative pseudogenes, and 1 putative phage.	2017 Nov	Olvera, Clarita; Olvera, C; Olvera; Santamaría, Rosa I; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Vallejo, Cristina; Vallejo, C; Vallejo; Montor, Juan J; Montor, JJ; Montor; Wacher, Carmen; Wacher, C; Wacher; Lopez Munguia, Agustín; Lopez Munguia, A; Lopez Munguia	Genome Announc
28522365	Knowns and unknowns of membrane lipid synthesis in streptomycetes.	Bacteria belonging to the genus Streptomyces are among the most prolific producers of antibiotics. Research on cellular membrane biosynthesis and turnover is lagging behind in Streptomyces compared to related organisms like Mycobacterium tuberculosis. While natural products discovery in Streptomyces is evidently a priority in order to discover new antibiotics to combat the increase in antibiotic resistant pathogens, a better understanding of this cellular compartment should provide insights into the interplay between core and secondary metabolism. However, some of the pathways for membrane lipid biosynthesis are still incomplete. In addition, while it has become clear that remodelling of the membrane is necessary for coping with environmental stress and for morphological differentiation, the detailed mechanisms of these adaptations remain elusive. Here, we aim to provide a summary of what is known about the polar lipid composition in Streptomyces, the biosynthetic pathways of polar lipids, and to highlight current gaps in understanding function, dynamics and biosynthesis of these essential molecules.	2017 Oct	Sandoval-Calderón, Mario; Sandoval-Calderón, M; Sandoval-Calderón; Guan, Ziqiang; Guan, Z; Guan; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	Biochimie
28399499	Occurrence of personal care products as emerging chemicals of concern in water resources: A review.	Personal care products (PCPs) are a diverse group of common household substances used for health, beauty and cleaning purposes. These include disinfectants, fragrances, insect repellents, preservatives and UV filters, among others. Some of them are considered chemicals of emerging concern due to their presence and negative impact on aquatic ecosystems, specially related to endocrine disruption and reproductive disorders. The entry of those chemicals to water bodies occurs mainly through the sewage effluents from wastewater treatment plants due to their incomplete or inefficient removal. The purpose of this review was to collect and analyze data about the incidence and concentrations of PCPs reported as emerging pollutants in different water matrices, including wastewater influents and effluents. Our database is composed of 141 articles with information about 72 PCPs recorded as emerging pollutants in 30 countries, in concentrations ranging from 0.029ng/L to 7.811×10<sup>6</sup>ng/L. Fragrances, antiseptics and sunscreens were the most reported groups. As expected, the largest number of PCPs documented as emerging pollutants were found in wastewater treatment plant effluents with a total of 64 compounds, compared to 43 in surface water and 23 in groundwater, which evidence the anthropological contribution of PCPs to water bodies. These molecules were found in all the continents, however, there is a lack of information regarding the presence of emerging pollutants from PCPs in developing countries. Therefore, we suggest further efforts in assessing the occurrence and concentrations of these chemicals in those areas.	2017 Oct	Montes-Grajales, Diana; Montes-Grajales, D; Montes-Grajales; Fennix-Agudelo, Mary; Fennix-Agudelo, M; Fennix-Agudelo; Miranda-Castro, Wendy; Miranda-Castro, W; Miranda-Castro	Sci Total Environ
28979253	Rapid Gene Turnover as a Significant Source of Genetic Variation in a Recently Seeded Population of a Healthcare-Associated Pathogen.	Genome sequencing has been useful to gain an understanding of bacterial evolution. It has been used for studying the phylogeography and/or the impact of mutation and recombination on bacterial populations. However, it has rarely been used to study gene turnover at microevolutionary scales. Here, we sequenced Mexican strains of the human pathogen <i>Acinetobacter baumannii</i> sampled from the same locale over a 3 year period to obtain insights into the microevolutionary dynamics of gene content variability. We found that the Mexican <i>A. baumannii</i> population was recently founded and has been emerging due to a rapid clonal expansion. Furthermore, we noticed that on average the Mexican strains differed from each other by over 300 genes and, notably, this gene content variation has accrued more frequently and faster than the accumulation of mutations. Moreover, due to its rapid pace, gene content variation reflects the phylogeny only at very short periods of time. Additionally, we found that the external branches of the phylogeny had almost 100 more genes than the internal branches. All in all, these results show that rapid gene turnover has been of paramount importance in producing genetic variation within this population and demonstrate the utility of genome sequencing to study alternative forms of genetic variation.	2017	Graña-Miraglia, Lucía; Graña-Miraglia, L; Graña-Miraglia; Lozano, Luis F; Lozano, LF; Lozano; Velázquez, Consuelo; Velázquez, C; Velázquez; Volkow-Fernández, Patricia; Volkow-Fernández, P; Volkow-Fernández; Pérez-Oseguera, Ángeles; Pérez-Oseguera, Á; Pérez-Oseguera; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez	Front Microbiol
27829123	Functional architecture and global properties of the Corynebacterium glutamicum regulatory network: Novel insights from a dataset with a high genomic coverage.	Corynebacterium glutamicum is a Gram-positive, anaerobic, rod-shaped soil bacterium able to grow on a diversity of carbon sources like sugars and organic acids. It is a biotechnological relevant organism because of its highly efficient ability to biosynthesize amino acids, such as l-glutamic acid and l-lysine. Here, we reconstructed the most complete C. glutamicum regulatory network to date and comprehensively analyzed its global organizational properties, systems-level features and functional architecture. Our analyses show the tremendous power of Abasy Atlas to study the functional organization of regulatory networks. We created two models of the C. glutamicum regulatory network: all-evidences (containing both weak and strong supported interactions, genomic coverage=73%) and strongly-supported (only accounting for strongly supported evidences, genomic coverage=71%). Using state-of-the-art methodologies, we prove that power-law behaviors truly govern the connectivity and clustering coefficient distributions. We found a non-previously reported circuit motif that we named complex feed-forward motif. We highlighted the importance of feedback loops for the functional architecture, beyond whether they are statistically over-represented or not in the network. We show that the previously reported top-down approach is inadequate to infer the hierarchy governing a regulatory network because feedback bridges different hierarchical layers, and the top-down approach disregards the presence of intermodular genes shaping the integration layer. Our findings all together further support a diamond-shaped, three-layered hierarchy exhibiting some feedback between processing and coordination layers, which is shaped by four classes of systems-level elements: global regulators, locally autonomous modules, basal machinery and intermodular genes.	2017 Sep	Freyre-González, Julio A; Freyre-González, JA; Freyre-González; Tauch, Andreas; Tauch, A; Tauch	J Biotechnol
28883144	Complete Genome Sequence of a <i>bla</i><sub>OXA-58</sub>-Producing <i>Acinetobacter baumannii</i> Strain Isolated from a Mexican Hospital.	In this study, we present the complete genome sequence of a <i>bla</i><sub>OXA-58</sub>-producing <i>Acinetobacter baumannii</i> strain, sampled from a Mexican hospital and not related to the international clones.	2017 Sep	Pérez-Oseguera, Ángeles; Pérez-Oseguera, Á; Pérez-Oseguera; Castro-Jaimes, Semiramis; Castro-Jaimes, S; Castro-Jaimes; Salgado-Camargo, Abraham David; Salgado-Camargo, AD; Salgado-Camargo; Silva-Sanchez, Jesus; Silva-Sanchez, J; Silva-Sanchez; Garza-González, Elvira; Garza-González, E; Garza-González; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Cevallos, Miguel Ángel; Cevallos, MÁ; Cevallos	Genome Announc
30605507	Candidatus Dactylopiibacterium carminicum, a Nitrogen-Fixing Symbiont of Dactylopius Cochineal Insects (Hemiptera: Coccoidea: Dactylopiidae).	The domesticated carmine cochineal Dactylopius coccus (scale insect) has commercial value and has been used for more than 500 years for natural red pigment production. Besides the domesticated cochineal, other wild Dactylopius species such as Dactylopius opuntiae are found in the Americas, all feeding on nutrient poor sap from native cacti. To compensate nutritional deficiencies, many insects harbor symbiotic bacteria which provide essential amino acids or vitamins to their hosts. Here, we characterized a symbiont from the carmine cochineal insects, Candidatus Dactylopiibacterium carminicum (betaproteobacterium, Rhodocyclaceae family) and found it in D. coccus and in D. opuntiae ovaries by fluorescent in situ hybridization, suggesting maternal inheritance. Bacterial genomes recovered from metagenomic data derived from whole insects or tissues both from D. coccus and from D. opuntiae were around 3.6 Mb in size. Phylogenomics showed that dactylopiibacteria constituted a closely related clade neighbor to nitrogen fixing bacteria from soil or from various plants including rice and other grass endophytes. Metabolic capabilities were inferred from genomic analyses, showing a complete operon for nitrogen fixation, biosynthesis of amino acids and vitamins and putative traits of anaerobic or microoxic metabolism as well as genes for plant interaction. Dactylopiibacterium nif gene expression and acetylene reduction activity detecting nitrogen fixation were evidenced in D. coccus hemolymph and ovaries, in congruence with the endosymbiont fluorescent in situ hybridization location. Dactylopiibacterium symbionts may compensate for the nitrogen deficiency in the cochineal diet. In addition, this symbiont may provide essential amino acids, recycle uric acid, and increase the cochineal life span.	2017 09	Vera-Ponce de León, Arturo; Vera-Ponce de León, A; Vera-Ponce de León; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Ramírez-Puebla, Shamayim T; Ramírez-Puebla, ST; Ramírez-Puebla; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Degli Esposti, Mauro; Degli Esposti, M; Degli Esposti; Martínez-Romero, Julio; Martínez-Romero, J; Martínez-Romero; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Genome Biol Evol
28721334	Draft genome sequence of <i>Bradyrhizobium paxllaeri</i> LMTR 21<sup>T</sup> isolated from Lima bean (<i>Phaseolus lunatus</i>) in Peru.	<i>Bradyrhizobium paxllaeri</i> is a prevalent species in root nodules of the Lima bean (<i>Phaseolus lunatus</i>) in Peru. LMTR 21<sup>T</sup> is the type strain of the species and was isolated from a root nodule collected in an agricultural field in the Peruvian central coast. Its 8.29 Mbp genome encoded 7635 CDS, 71 tRNAs and 3 rRNAs genes. All genes required to stablish a nitrogen-fixing symbiosis with its host were present. The draft genome sequence and annotation have been deposited at GenBank under the accession number MAXB00000000.	2017 Sep	Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Rey, Luis; Rey, L; Rey; Durán, David; Durán, D; Durán; Canchaya, Carlos A; Canchaya, CA; Canchaya; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Zúñiga-Dávila, Doris; Zúñiga-Dávila, D; Zúñiga-Dávila; Imperial, Juan; Imperial, J; Imperial; Ruiz-Argüeso, Tomás; Ruiz-Argüeso, T; Ruiz-Argüeso; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Genom Data
28702356	Genome sequence of <i>Bradyrhizobium</i> sp. LMTR 3, a diazotrophic symbiont of Lima bean (<i>Phaseolus lunatus</i>).	<i>Bradyrhizobium</i> sp. LMTR 3 is a representative strain of one of the geno(species) of diazotrophic symbionts associated with Lima bean (<i>Phaseolus lunatus</i>) in Peru. Its 7.83 Mb genome was sequenced using the Illumina technology and found to encode a complete set of genes required for nodulation and nitrogen fixation, and additional genes putatively involved in root colonization. Its draft genome sequence and annotation have been deposited at GenBank under the accession number MAXC00000000.	2017 Sep	Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Rey, Luis; Rey, L; Rey; Durán, David; Durán, D; Durán; Canchaya, Carlos A; Canchaya, CA; Canchaya; Zúñiga-Dávila, Doris; Zúñiga-Dávila, D; Zúñiga-Dávila; Imperial, Juan; Imperial, J; Imperial; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Ruiz-Argüeso, Tomás; Ruiz-Argüeso, T; Ruiz-Argüeso	Genom Data
28922870	Male Mutation Bias Is the Main Force Shaping Chromosomal Substitution Rates in Monotreme Mammals.	In many species, spermatogenesis involves more cell divisions than oogenesis, and the male germline, therefore, accumulates more DNA replication errors, a phenomenon known as male mutation bias. The extent of male mutation bias (α) is estimated by comparing substitution rates of the X, Y, and autosomal chromosomes, as these chromosomes spend different proportions of their time in the germlines of the two sexes. Male mutation bias has been characterized in placental and marsupial mammals as well as birds, but analyses in monotremes failed to detect any such bias. Monotremes are an ancient lineage of egg-laying mammals with distinct biological properties, which include unique germline features. Here, we sought to assess the presence and potential characteristics of male mutation bias in platypus and the short-beaked echidna based on substitution rate analyses of X, Y, and autosomes. We established the presence of moderate male mutation bias in monotremes, corresponding to an α value of 2.12-3.69. Given that it has been unclear what proportion of the variation in substitution rates on the different chromosomal classes is really due to differential number of replications, we analyzed the influence of other confounding forces (selection, replication-timing, etc.) and found that male mutation bias is the main force explaining the between-chromosome classes differences in substitution rates. Finally, we estimated the proportion of variation at the gene level in substitution rates that is owing to replication effects and found that this phenomenon can explain >68% of these variations in monotremes, and in control species, rodents, and primates.	2017 09	Link, Vivian; Link, V; Link; Aguilar-Gómez, Diana; Aguilar-Gómez, D; Aguilar-Gómez; Ramírez-Suástegui, Ciro; Ramírez-Suástegui, C; Ramírez-Suástegui; Hurst, Laurence D; Hurst, LD; Hurst; Cortez, Diego; Cortez, D; Cortez	Genome Biol Evol
28541477	Mitochondrial Retroprocessing Promoted Functional Transfers of rpl5 to the Nucleus in Grasses.	Functional gene transfers from the mitochondrion to the nucleus are ongoing in angiosperms and have occurred repeatedly for all 15 ribosomal protein genes, but it is not clear why some of these genes are transferred more often than others nor what the balance is between DNA- and RNA-mediated transfers. Although direct insertion of mitochondrial DNA into the nucleus occurs frequently in angiosperms, case studies of functional mitochondrial gene transfer have implicated an RNA-mediated mechanism that eliminates introns and RNA editing sites, which would otherwise impede proper expression of mitochondrial genes in the nucleus. To elucidate the mechanisms that facilitate functional gene transfers and the evolutionary dynamics of the coexisting nuclear and mitochondrial gene copies that are established during these transfers, we have analyzed rpl5 genes from 90 grasses (Poaceae) and related monocots. Multiple lines of evidence indicate that rpl5 has been functionally transferred to the nucleus at least three separate times in the grass family and that at least seven species have intact and transcribed (but not necessarily functional) copies in both the mitochondrion and nucleus. In two grasses, likely functional nuclear copies of rpl5 have been subject to recent gene conversion events via secondarily transferred mitochondrial copies in what we believe are the first described cases of mitochondrial-to-nuclear gene conversion. We show that rpl5 underwent a retroprocessing event within the mitochondrial genome early in the evolution of the grass family, which we argue predisposed the gene towards successful, DNA-mediated functional transfer by generating a "pre-edited" sequence.	2017 09	Wu, Zhiqiang; Wu, Z; Wu; Sloan, Daniel B; Sloan, DB; Sloan; Brown, Colin W; Brown, CW; Brown; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Palmer, Jeffrey D; Palmer, JD; Palmer; Ong, Han Chuan; Ong, HC; Ong	Mol Biol Evol
28912771	Selection of Functional Quorum Sensing Systems by Lysogenic Bacteriophages in <i>Pseudomonas aeruginosa</i>.	Quorum sensing (QS) in <i>Pseudomonas aeruginosa</i> coordinates the expression of virulence factors, some of which are used as public goods. Since their production is a cooperative behavior, it is susceptible to social cheating in which non-cooperative QS deficient mutants use the resources without investing in their production. Nevertheless, functional QS systems are abundant; hence, mechanisms regulating the amount of cheating should exist. Evidence that demonstrates a tight relationship between QS and the susceptibility of bacteria against the attack of lytic phages is increasing; nevertheless, the relationship between temperate phages and QS has been much less explored. Therefore, in this work, we studied the effects of having a functional QS system on the susceptibility to temperate bacteriophages and how this affects the bacterial and phage dynamics. We find that both experimentally and using mathematical models, that the lysogenic bacteriophages D3112 and JBD30 select QS-proficient <i>P. aeruginosa</i> phenotypes as compared to the QS-deficient mutants during competition experiments with mixed strain populations <i>in vitro</i> and <i>in vivo</i> in <i>Galleria mellonella</i>, in spite of the fact that both phages replicate better in the wild-type background. We show that this phenomenon restricts social cheating, and we propose that temperate phages may constitute an important selective pressure toward the conservation of bacterial QS.	2017	Saucedo-Mora, Miguel A; Saucedo-Mora, MA; Saucedo-Mora; Castañeda-Tamez, Paulina; Castañeda-Tamez, P; Castañeda-Tamez; Cazares, Adrián; Cazares, A; Cazares; Pérez-Velázquez, Judith; Pérez-Velázquez, J; Pérez-Velázquez; Hense, Burkhard A; Hense, BA; Hense; Cazares, Daniel; Cazares, D; Cazares; Figueroa, Wendy; Figueroa, W; Figueroa; Carballo, Marco; Carballo, M; Carballo; Guarneros, Gabriel; Guarneros, G; Guarneros; Pérez-Eretza, Berenice; Pérez-Eretza, B; Pérez-Eretza; Cruz, Nelby; Cruz, N; Cruz; Nishiyama, Yoshito; Nishiyama, Y; Nishiyama; Maeda, Toshinari; Maeda, T; Maeda; Belmont-Díaz, Javier A; Belmont-Díaz, JA; Belmont-Díaz; Wood, Thomas K; Wood, TK; Wood; García-Contreras, Rodolfo; García-Contreras, R; García-Contreras	Front Microbiol
28830361	Identification and analysis of alternative splicing events in Phaseolus vulgaris and Glycine max.	The vast diversification of proteins in eukaryotic cells has been related with multiple transcript isoforms from a single gene that result in alternative splicing (AS) of primary transcripts. Analysis of RNA sequencing data from expressed sequence tags and next generation RNA sequencing has been crucial for AS identification and genome-wide AS studies. For the identification of AS events from the related legume species Phaseolus vulgaris and Glycine max, 157 and 88 publicly available RNA-seq libraries, respectively, were analyzed.	2017 Aug	Iñiguez, Luis P; Iñiguez, LP; Iñiguez; Ramírez, Mario; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Barbazuk, William B; Barbazuk, WB; Barbazuk; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	BMC Genomics
28818899	Draft Genome Sequence of <i>Sphingobacterium</i> sp. CZ-UAM, Isolated from a Methanotrophic Consortium.	<i>Sphingobacterium</i> sp. CZ-UAM was isolated from a methanotrophic consortium in mineral medium using methane as the only carbon source. A draft genome of 5.84 Mb with a 40.77% G+C content is reported here. This genome sequence will allow the investigation of potential methanotrophy in this isolated strain.	2017 Aug	Steffani-Vallejo, José Luis; Steffani-Vallejo, JL; Steffani-Vallejo; Zuñiga, Cristal; Zuñiga, C; Zuñiga; Cruz-Morales, Pablo; Cruz-Morales, P; Cruz-Morales; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Morales, Marcia; Morales, M; Morales; Licona-Cassani, Cuauhtemoc; Licona-Cassani, C; Licona-Cassani; Revah, Sergio; Revah, S; Revah; Utrilla, José; Utrilla, J; Utrilla	Genome Announc
28861062	Evolutionary Genetic Analysis Uncovers Multiple Species with Distinct Habitat Preferences and Antibiotic Resistance Phenotypes in the <i>Stenotrophomonas maltophilia</i> Complex.	The genus <i>Stenotrophomonas</i> (<i>Gammaproteobacteria</i>) has a broad environmental distribution. <i>Stenotrophomonas maltophilia</i> is its best known species because it is a globally emerging, multidrug-resistant (MDR), opportunistic pathogen. Members of this species are known to display high genetic, ecological and phenotypic diversity, forming the so-called <i>S. maltophilia</i> complex (Smc). Heterogeneous resistance and virulence phenotypes have been reported for environmental Smc isolates of diverse ecological origin. We hypothesized that this heterogeneity could be in part due to the potential lumping of several cryptic species in the Smc. Here we used state-of-the-art phylogenetic and population genetics methods to test this hypothesis based on the multilocus dataset available for the genus at pubmlst.org. It was extended with sequences from complete and draft genome sequences to assemble a comprehensive set of reference sequences. This framework was used to analyze 108 environmental isolates obtained in this study from the sediment and water column of four rivers and streams in Central Mexico, affected by contrasting levels of anthropogenic pollution. The aim of the study was to identify species in this collection, defined as genetically cohesive sequence clusters, and to determine the extent of their genetic, ecological and phenotypic differentiation. The multispecies coalescent, coupled with Bayes factor analysis was used to delimit species borders, together with population genetic structure analyses, recombination and gene flow estimates between sequence clusters. These analyses consistently revealed that the Smc contains at least 5 significantly differentiated lineages: <i>S. maltophilia</i> and Smc1 to Smc4. Only <i>S. maltophilia</i> was found to be intrinsically MDR, all its members expressing metallo-β-lactamases (MBLs). The other Smc lineages were not MDR and did not express MBLs. We also obtained isolates related to <i>S. acidaminiphila</i>, <i>S. humi</i> and <i>S. terrae</i>. They were significantly more susceptible to antibiotics than <i>S. maltophilia</i>. We demonstrate that the sympatric lineages recovered display significantly differentiated habitat preferences, antibiotic resistance profiles and β-lactamase expression phenotypes, as shown by diverse multivariate analyses and robust univariate statistical tests. We discuss our data in light of current models of bacterial speciation, which fit these data well, stressing the implications of species delimitation in ecological, evolutionary and clinical research.	2017	Ochoa-Sánchez, Luz E; Ochoa-Sánchez, LE; Ochoa-Sánchez; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa	Front Microbiol
28824593	Genome-Wide Mapping of Transcriptional Regulation and Metabolism Describes Information-Processing Units in <i>Escherichia coli</i>.	In the face of changes in their environment, bacteria adjust gene expression levels and produce appropriate responses. The individual layers of this process have been widely studied: the transcriptional regulatory network describes the regulatory interactions that produce changes in the metabolic network, both of which are coordinated by the signaling network, but the interplay between them has never been described in a systematic fashion. Here, we formalize the process of detection and processing of environmental information mediated by individual transcription factors (TFs), utilizing a concept termed genetic sensory response units (GENSOR units), which are composed of four components: (1) a signal, (2) signal transduction, (3) genetic switch, and (4) a response. We used experimentally validated data sets from two databases to assemble a GENSOR unit for each of the 189 local TFs of <i>Escherichia coli</i> K-12 contained in the RegulonDB database. Further analysis suggested that feedback is a common occurrence in signal processing, and there is a gradient of functional complexity in the response mediated by each TF, as opposed to a one regulator/one pathway rule. Finally, we provide examples of other GENSOR unit applications, such as hypothesis generation, detailed description of cellular decision making, and elucidation of indirect regulatory mechanisms.	2017	Ledezma-Tejeida, Daniela; Ledezma-Tejeida, D; Ledezma-Tejeida; Ishida, Cecilia; Ishida, C; Ishida; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Front Microbiol
28217917	A comprehensive phylogenetic analysis of copper transporting P<sub>1B</sub> ATPases from bacteria of the Rhizobiales order uncovers multiplicity, diversity and novel taxonomic subtypes.	The ubiquitous cytoplasmic membrane copper transporting P<sub>1B-1</sub> and P<sub>1B-3</sub> -type ATPases pump out Cu<sup>+</sup> and Cu<sup>2+</sup> , respectively, to prevent cytoplasmic accumulation and avoid toxicity. The presence of five copies of Cu-ATPases in the symbiotic nitrogen-fixing bacteria Sinorhizobium meliloti is remarkable; it is the largest number of Cu<sup>+</sup> -transporters in a bacterial genome reported to date. Since the prevalence of multiple Cu-ATPases in members of the Rhizobiales order is unknown, we performed an in silico analysis to understand the occurrence, diversity and evolution of Cu<sup>+</sup> -ATPases in members of the Rhizobiales order. Multiple copies of Cu-ATPase coding genes (2-8) were detected in 45 of the 53 analyzed genomes. The diversity inferred from a maximum-likelihood (ML) phylogenetic analysis classified Cu-ATPases into four monophyletic groups. Each group contained additional subtypes, based on the presence of conserved motifs. This novel phylogeny redefines the current classification, where they are divided into two subtypes (P<sub>1B-1</sub> and P<sub>1B-3</sub> ). Horizontal gene transfer (HGT) as well as the evolutionary dynamic of plasmid-borne genes may have played an important role in the functional diversification of Cu-ATPases. Homologous cytoplasmic and periplasmic Cu<sup>+</sup> -chaperones, CopZ, and CusF, that integrate a CopZ-CopA-CusF tripartite efflux system in gamma-proteobacteria and archeae, were found in 19 of the 53 surveyed genomes of the Rhizobiales. This result strongly suggests a high divergence of CopZ and CusF homologs, or the existence of unexplored proteins involved in cellular copper transport.	2017 08	Cubillas, Ciro; Cubillas, C; Cubillas; Miranda-Sánchez, Fabiola; Miranda-Sánchez, F; Miranda-Sánchez; González-Sánchez, Antonio; González-Sánchez, A; González-Sánchez; Elizalde, José Pedro; Elizalde, JP; Elizalde; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; García-de Los Santos, Alejandro; García-de Los Santos, A; García-de Los Santos	Microbiologyopen
28873965	An expanded mammal mitogenome dataset from Southeast Asia.	Southeast (SE) Asia is 1 of the most biodiverse regions in the world, and it holds approximately 20% of all mammal species. Despite this, the majority of SE Asia's genetic diversity is still poorly characterized. The growing interest in using environmental DNA to assess and monitor SE Asian species, in particular threatened mammals-has created the urgent need to expand the available reference database of mitochondrial barcode and complete mitogenome sequences. We have partially addressed this need by generating 72 new mitogenome sequences reconstructed from DNA isolated from a range of historical and modern tissue samples. Approximately 55 gigabases of raw sequence were generated. From this data, we assembled 72 complete mitogenome sequences, with an average depth of coverage of ×102.9 and ×55.2 for modern samples and historical samples, respectively. This dataset represents 52 species, of which 30 species had no previous mitogenome data available. The mitogenomes were geotagged to their sampling location, where known, to display a detailed geographical distribution of the species. Our new database of 52 taxa will strongly enhance the utility of environmental DNA approaches for monitoring mammals in SE Asia as it greatly increases the likelihoods that identification of metabarcoding sequencing reads can be assigned to reference sequences. This magnifies the confidence in species detections and thus allows more robust surveys and monitoring programmes of SE Asia's threatened mammal biodiversity. The extensive collections of historical samples from SE Asia in western and SE Asian museums should serve as additional valuable material to further enrich this reference database.	2017 08	Mohd Salleh, Faezah; Mohd Salleh, F; Mohd Salleh; Ramos-Madrigal, Jazmín; Ramos-Madrigal, J; Ramos-Madrigal; Peñaloza, Fernando; Peñaloza, F; Peñaloza; Liu, Shanlin; Liu, S; Liu; Mikkel-Holger, S Sinding; Mikkel-Holger, SS; Mikkel-Holger; Riddhi, P Patel; Riddhi, PP; Riddhi; Martins, Renata; Martins, R; Martins; Lenz, Dorina; Lenz, D; Lenz; Fickel, Jörns; Fickel, J; Fickel; Roos, Christian; Roos, C; Roos; Shamsir, Mohd Shahir; Shamsir, MS; Shamsir; Azman, Mohammad Shahfiz; Azman, MS; Azman; Burton, K Lim; Burton, KL; Burton; Stephen, J Rossiter; Stephen, JR; Stephen; Wilting, Andreas; Wilting, A; Wilting; Gilbert, M Thomas P; Gilbert, MTP; Gilbert	Gigascience
28751391	Complete Genome Sequences of Eight <i>Rhizobium</i> Symbionts Associated with Common Bean (<i>Phaseolus vulgaris</i>).	We present here the high-quality complete genome sequences of eight strains of <i>Rhizobium</i>-nodulating <i>Phaseolus vulgaris</i> Comparative analyses showed that some of them belonged to different genomic and evolutionary lineages with common symbiotic properties. Two novel symbiotic plasmids (pSyms) with <i>P. vulgaris</i> specificity are reported here.	2017 Jul	Santamaría, Rosa Isela; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Pérez-Carrascal, Olga María; Pérez-Carrascal, OM; Pérez-Carrascal; Miranda-Sánchez, Fabiola; Miranda-Sánchez, F; Miranda-Sánchez; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; Juárez, Soledad; Juárez, S; Juárez; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Cevallos, Miguel Ángel; Cevallos, MÁ; Cevallos; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; González, Víctor; González, V; González	Genome Announc
28671531	Genomic and physiological characterization of a laboratory-isolated Acinetobacter schindleri ACE strain that quickly and efficiently catabolizes acetate.	An Acinetobacter strain, designated ACE, was isolated in the laboratory. Phylogenetic tests and average nucleotide identity value comparisons suggested that ACE belongs to the species Acinetobacterschindleri. We report for the first time the complete genome sequence of an A. schindleri strain, which consists of a single circular chromosome of 3 001 209 bp with an overall DNA G+C content of 42.9 mol% and six plasmids that account for 266 844 bp of extrachromosomal material. The presence or absence of genes related to carbon catabolism and antibiotic resistance were in agreement with the phenotypic characterization of ACE. This strain grew faster and with a higher biomass yield on acetate than the reference strain Acinetobacter baylyi ADP1. However, ACE did not use aromatic compounds and was unable to grow on common carbon sources, such as glucose, xylose, glycerol or citrate. The gluconeogenic and the catechol pathways are complete in ACE, but compounds that are converted to protocatechuate did not sustain growth since some genes of this pathway are missing. Likewise, this strain could not grow on glucose because it lacks the genes of the Entner-Doudoroff pathway. Minimal inhibitory concentration data showed that ACE was susceptible to most of the antimicrobial agents recommended for the clinical treatment of Acinetobacter spp. Some genes related to a possible human-microbe interaction were found in the ACE genome. ACE is likely to have a low pathogenic risk, as is the case with other A. schindleri strains. These results provide a valuable reference for broadening the knowledge of the biology of Acinetobacter.	2017 07	Sigala, Juan-Carlos; Sigala, JC; Sigala; Suárez, Brisa Paola; Suárez, BP; Suárez; Lara, Alvaro R; Lara, AR; Lara; Borgne, Sylvie Le; Borgne, SL; Borgne; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Santamaría, Rosa Isela; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Martinez, Alfredo; Martinez, A; Martinez	Microbiology (Reading)
28530509	Genotyping Toxoplasma gondii with the B1 Gene in Naturally Infected Sheep from an Endemic Region in the Pacific Coast of Mexico.	Toxoplasma gondii is a protozoan parasite with a broad ecological valence, which has been detected in a wide range of hosts and landscapes. Although the genus is considered monospecific, in recent years it has been demonstrated to exhibit more genetic variability than previously known. In Mexico, there are few genotyping studies, which suggest that classical, autochthonous, and atypical strains are circulating. The goal of this study was to describe T. gondii genetic diversity in naturally infected sheep from Colima, Mexico. This is a good site to study ecological aspects of this parasite since it is located between the Nearctic and Neotropical ecozones and it includes domestic and wild risks for transmission. We analyzed 305 tissue samples of semicaptive sheep from six coastal and central zones of Colima and border zones of Michoacán. We used an 803 bp amplicon of the B1 gene to genotype T. gondii and seroprevalence was determined by ELISA. Indexes for genetic diversity and genetic differentiation were calculated and compared with reference strains from North America (NA) and South America (SA). Twenty-three tissue samples were positive for the B1 gene by PCR, which were sequenced. Crude prevalence was 24.4%. The genetic analysis showed 16 variable sites along the 803 bp region that grouped all sequences into 13 haplotypes in the phylogenetic tree. Bayesian and haplotype network analysis showed nine new B1-types, of which three were frequent and six had unique alleles. Comparisons among sequence sets revealed that the Mexican population had lower differentiation than SA and an intermediate genetic variability between South America and North America. The B1 gene analysis showed new T. gondii haplotypes in naturally infected sheep; therefore, this marker could be initially used in molecular screening studies to identify potentially virulent genotypes of this parasite using natural host samples directly.	2017 07	Martínez-Flores, Williams Arony; Martínez-Flores, WA; Martínez-Flores; Palma-García, José Manuel; Palma-García, JM; Palma-García; Caballero-Ortega, Heriberto; Caballero-Ortega, H; Caballero-Ortega; Del Viento-Camacho, Alejandra; Del Viento-Camacho, A; Del Viento-Camacho; López-Escamilla, Eduardo; López-Escamilla, E; López-Escamilla; Martínez-Hernández, Fernando; Martínez-Hernández, F; Martínez-Hernández; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Correa, Dolores; Correa, D; Correa; Maravilla, Pablo; Maravilla, P; Maravilla	Vector Borne Zoonotic Dis
28255691	The naringenin-induced exoproteome of Rhizobium etli CE3.	Flavonoids excreted by legume roots induce the expression of symbiotically essential nodulation (nod) genes in rhizobia, as well as that of specific protein export systems. In the bean microsymbiont Rhizobium etli CE3, nod genes are induced by the flavonoid naringenin. In this study, we identified 693 proteins in the exoproteome of strain CE3 grown in minimal medium with or without naringenin, with 101 and 100 exoproteins being exclusive to these conditions, respectively. Four hundred ninety-two (71%) of the extracellular proteins were found in both cultures. Of the total exoproteins identified, nearly 35% were also present in the intracellular proteome of R. etli bacteroids, 27% had N-terminal signal sequences and a significant number had previously demonstrated or possible novel roles in symbiosis, including bacterial cell surface modification, adhesins, proteins classified as MAMPs (microbe-associated molecular patterns), such as flagellin and EF-Tu, and several normally cytoplasmic proteins as Ndk and glycolytic enzymes, which are known to have extracellular "moonlighting" roles in bacteria that interact with eukaryotic cells. It is noteworthy that the transmembrane ß (1,2) glucan biosynthesis protein NdvB, an essential symbiotic protein in rhizobia, was found in the R. etli naringenin-induced exoproteome. In addition, potential binding sites for two nod-gene transcriptional regulators (NodD) occurred somewhat more frequently in the promoters of genes encoding naringenin-induced exoproteins in comparison to those ofexoproteins found in the control condition.	2017 Jul	Meneses, Niurka; Meneses, N; Meneses; Taboada, Hermenegildo; Taboada, H; Taboada; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Vargas, María Del Carmen; Vargas, MDC; Vargas; Buchs, Natasha; Buchs, N; Buchs; Heller, Manfred; Heller, M; Heller; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación	Arch Microbiol
28704543	The transcriptional regulator SsrB is involved in a molecular switch controlling virulence lifestyles of Salmonella.	The evolution of bacterial pathogenicity, heavily influenced by horizontal gene transfer, provides new virulence factors and regulatory connections that alter bacterial phenotypes. Salmonella pathogenicity islands 1 and 2 (SPI-1 and SPI-2) are chromosomal regions that were acquired at different evolutionary times and are essential for Salmonella virulence. In the intestine of mammalian hosts, Salmonella expresses the SPI-1 genes that mediate its invasion to the gut epithelium. Once inside the cells, Salmonella down-regulates the SPI-1 genes and induces the expression of the SPI-2 genes, which favor its intracellular replication. The mechanism by which the invasion machinery is deactivated following successful invasion of host cells is not known. Here, we show that the SPI-2 encoded transcriptional regulator SsrB, which positively controls SPI-2, acts as a dual regulator that represses expression of SPI-1 during intracellular stages of infection. The mechanism of this SPI-1 repression by SsrB was direct and acts upon the hilD and hilA regulatory genes. The phenotypic effect of this molecular switch activity was a significant reduction in invasion ability of S. enterica serovar Typhimurium while promoting the expression of genes required for intracellular survival. During mouse infections, Salmonella mutants lacking SsrB had high levels of hilA (SPI-1) transcriptional activity whereas introducing a constitutively active SsrB led to significant hilA repression. Thus, our results reveal a novel SsrB-mediated mechanism of transcriptional crosstalk between SPI-1 and SPI-2 that helps Salmonella transition to the intracellular lifestyle.	2017 Jul	Pérez-Morales, Deyanira; Pérez-Morales, D; Pérez-Morales; Banda, María M; Banda, MM; Banda; Chau, N Y Elizabeth; Chau, NYE; Chau; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; Ibarra, J Antonio; Ibarra, JA; Ibarra; Ilyas, Bushra; Ilyas, B; Ilyas; Coombes, Brian K; Coombes, BK; Coombes; Bustamante, Víctor H; Bustamante, VH; Bustamante	PLoS Pathog
28981567	Bioinformatics in Latin America and SoIBio impact, a tale of spin-off and expansion around genomes and protein structures.	Owing to the emerging impact of bioinformatics and computational biology, in this article, we present an overview of the history and current state of the research on this field in Latin America (LA). It will be difficult to cover without inequality all the efforts, initiatives and works that have happened for the past two decades in this vast region (that includes >19 million km2 and >600 million people). Despite the difficulty, we have done an analytical search looking for publications in the field made by researchers from 19 LA countries in the past 25 years. In this way, we find that research in bioinformatics in this region should develop twice to approach the average world scientific production in the field. We also found some of the pioneering scientists who initiated and led bioinformatics in the region and were promoters of this new scientific field. Our analysis also reveals that spin-off began around some specific areas within the biomolecular sciences: studies on genomes (anchored in the new generation of deep sequencing technologies, followed by developments in proteomics) and studies on protein structures (supported by three-dimensional structural determination technologies and their computational advancement). Finally, we show that the contribution to this endeavour of the Iberoamerican Society for Bioinformatics, founded in Mexico in 2009, has been significant, as it is a leading forum to join efforts of many scientists from LA interested in promoting research, training and education in bioinformatics.	2019 03	De Las Rivas, Javier; De Las Rivas, J; De Las Rivas; Bonavides-Martínez, Cesar; Bonavides-Martínez, C; Bonavides-Martínez; Campos-Laborie, Francisco Jose; Campos-Laborie, FJ; Campos-Laborie	Brief Bioinform
28639897	Gene signature based on degradome-related genes can predict distal metastasis in cervical cancer patients.	Cervical cancer is one of the leading causes of death in women worldwide, which mainly affects developing countries. The patients who suffer a recurrence and/or progression disease have a higher risk of developing distal metastases. Proteases comprising the degradome given its ability to promote cell growth, migration, and invasion of tissues play an important role during tumor development and progression. In this study, we used high-density microarrays and quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction to evaluate the degradome profile and their inhibitors in 112 samples of patients diagnosed with locally advanced cervical cancer. Clinical follow-up was done during a period of 3 years. Using a correlation analysis between the response to treatment and the development of metastasis, we established a molecular signature comprising eight degradome-related genes (FAM111B, FAM111A, CFB, PSMB8, PSMB9, CASP7, PRSS16, and CD74) with the ability to discriminate patients at risk of distal metastases. In conclusion, present results show that molecular signature obtained from degradome genes can predict the possibility of metastasis in patients with locally advanced cervical cancer.	2017 Jun	Fernandez-Retana, Jorge; Fernandez-Retana, J; Fernandez-Retana; Zamudio-Meza, Horacio; Zamudio-Meza, H; Zamudio-Meza; Rodriguez-Morales, Miguel; Rodriguez-Morales, M; Rodriguez-Morales; Pedroza-Torres, Abraham; Pedroza-Torres, A; Pedroza-Torres; Isla-Ortiz, David; Isla-Ortiz, D; Isla-Ortiz; Herrera, Luis; Herrera, L; Herrera; Jacobo-Herrera, Nadia; Jacobo-Herrera, N; Jacobo-Herrera; Peralta-Zaragoza, Oscar; Peralta-Zaragoza, O; Peralta-Zaragoza; López-Camarillo, César; López-Camarillo, C; López-Camarillo; Morales-Gonzalez, Fermin; Morales-Gonzalez, F; Morales-Gonzalez; Cantu de Leon, David; Cantu de Leon, D; Cantu de Leon; Pérez-Plasencia, Carlos; Pérez-Plasencia, C; Pérez-Plasencia	Tumour Biol
28596401	Draft Genome Sequence of <i>Pseudomonas chlororaphis</i> ATCC 9446, a Nonpathogenic Bacterium with Bioremediation and Industrial Potential.	<i>Pseudomonas chlororaphis</i> strain ATCC 9446 is a biocontrol-related organism. We report here its draft genome sequence assembled into 35 contigs consisting of 6,783,030 bp. Genome annotation predicted a total of 6,200 genes, 6,128 coding sequences, 81 pseudogenes, 58 tRNAs, 4 noncoding RNAs (ncRNAs), and 41 frameshifted genes.	2017 Jun	Moreno-Avitia, Fabian; Moreno-Avitia, F; Moreno-Avitia; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Utrilla, Jose; Utrilla, J; Utrilla; Bolívar, Francisco; Bolívar, F; Bolívar; Escalante, Adelfo; Escalante, A; Escalante	Genome Announc
28442446	Proteomic and transcriptomic analysis of saliva components from the hematophagous reduviid Triatoma pallidipennis.	Species belonging to the Triatominae subfamily are commonly associated with Chagas disease, as they are potential vectors of the parasite Trypanosoma cruzi. However, their saliva contains a cocktail of diverse anti-hemostatic proteins that prevent blood coagulation, vasodilation and platelet aggregation of blood; components with indisputable therapeutic potential. We performed a transcriptomic and proteomic analyses of salivary glands and protein spots from 2DE gels of milked saliva, respectively, from the Mexican Triatoma pallidipennis. Massive sequencing techniques were used to reveal this protein diversity. A total of 78 out of 233 transcripts were identified as proteins in the saliva, divided among 43 of 55 spots from 2DE gels of saliva, identified by LC-MS/MS analysis. Some of the annotated transcripts putatively code for anti-hemostatic proteins, which share sequence similarities with proteins previously described for South American triatomines. The most abundant as well as diverse transcripts and proteins in the saliva were the anti-hemostatic triabins. For the first time, a transcriptomic analysis uncovered other unrelated but relevant components in triatomines, including antimicrobial and thrombolytic polypeptides. Likewise, unique proteins such as the angiotensin-converting enzyme were identified not just in the salivary gland transcriptome but also at saliva proteome of this North American bloodsucking insect.	2017 06	Hernández-Vargas, María J; Hernández-Vargas, MJ; Hernández-Vargas; Gil, Jeovanis; Gil, J; Gil; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Pedraza-Escalona, Martha; Pedraza-Escalona, M; Pedraza-Escalona; Ortiz, Ernesto; Ortiz, E; Ortiz; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Alagón, Alejandro; Alagón, A; Alagón; Corzo, Gerardo; Corzo, G; Corzo	J Proteomics
28671650	CAPRRESI: Chimera Assembly by Plasmid Recovery and Restriction Enzyme Site Insertion.	Here, we present chimera assembly by plasmid recovery and restriction enzyme site insertion (CAPRRESI). CAPRRESI benefits from many strengths of the original plasmid recovery method and introduces restriction enzyme digestion to ease DNA ligation reactions (required for chimera assembly). For this protocol, users clone wildtype genes into the same plasmid (pUC18 or pUC19). After the in silico selection of amino acid sequence regions where chimeras should be assembled, users obtain all the synonym DNA sequences that encode them. Ad hoc Perl scripts enable users to determine all synonym DNA sequences. After this step, another Perl script searches for restriction enzyme sites on all synonym DNA sequences. This in silico analysis is also performed using the ampicillin resistance gene (ampR) found on pUC18/19 plasmids. Users design oligonucleotides inside synonym regions to disrupt wildtype and ampR genes by PCR. After obtaining and purifying complementary DNA fragments, restriction enzyme digestion is accomplished. Chimera assembly is achieved by ligating appropriate complementary DNA fragments. pUC18/19 vectors are selected for CAPRRESI because they offer technical advantages, such as small size (2,686 base pairs), high copy number, advantageous sequencing reaction features, and commercial availability. The usage of restriction enzymes for chimera assembly eliminates the need for DNA polymerases yielding blunt-ended products. CAPRRESI is a fast and low-cost method for fusing protein-coding genes.	2017 06	Santillán, Orlando; Santillán, O; Santillán; Ramírez-Romero, Miguel A; Ramírez-Romero, MA; Ramírez-Romero; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila	J Vis Exp
28475624	The functional microbiome of arthropods.	Many studies on the microbiome of animals have been reported but a comprehensive analysis is lacking. Here we present a meta-analysis on the microbiomes of arthropods and their terrestrial habitat, focusing on the functional profile of bacterial communities derived from metabolic traits that are essential for microbial life. We report a detailed analysis of probably the largest set of biochemically defined functional traits ever examined in microbiome studies. This work deals with the phylum proteobacteria, which is usually dominant in marine and terrestrial environments and covers all functions associated with microbiomes. The considerable variation in the distribution and abundance of proteobacteria in microbiomes has remained fundamentally unexplained. This analysis reveals discrete functional groups characteristic for adaptation to anaerobic conditions, which appear to be defined by environmental filtering of taxonomically related taxa. The biochemical diversification of the functional groups suggests an evolutionary trajectory in the structure of arthropods' microbiome, from metabolically versatile to specialized proteobacterial organisms that are adapted to complex environments such as the gut of social insects. Bacterial distribution in arthropods' microbiomes also shows taxonomic clusters that do not correspond to functional groups and may derive from other factors, including common contaminants of soil and reagents.	2017	Degli Esposti, Mauro; Degli Esposti, M; Degli Esposti; Martinez Romero, Esperanza; Martinez Romero, E; Martinez Romero	PLoS One
29382487	Displacers improve the selectivity of phosphopeptide enrichment by metal oxide affinity chromatography.	A key process in cell regulation is protein phosphorylation, which is catalyzed by protein kinases and phosphatases. However, phosphoproteomics studies are difficult because of the complexity of protein phosphorylation and the number of phosphorylation sites.	2017 May - Jun	Herrera, Yesenia; Herrera, Y; Herrera; Contreras, Sandra; Contreras, S; Contreras; Hernández, Magdalena; Hernández, M; Hernández; Álvarez, Laura; Álvarez, L; Álvarez; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara	Bol Med Hosp Infant Mex
27566552	Experimental conditions improving in-solution target enrichment for ancient DNA.	High-throughput sequencing has dramatically fostered ancient DNA research in recent years. Shotgun sequencing, however, does not necessarily appear as the best-suited approach due to the extensive contamination of samples with exogenous environmental microbial DNA. DNA capture-enrichment methods represent cost-effective alternatives that increase the sequencing focus on the endogenous fraction, whether it is from mitochondrial or nuclear genomes, or parts thereof. Here, we explored experimental parameters that could impact the efficacy of MYbaits in-solution capture assays of ~5000 nuclear loci or the whole genome. We found that varying quantities of the starting probes had only moderate effect on capture outcomes. Starting DNA, probe tiling, the hybridization temperature and the proportion of endogenous DNA all affected the assay, however. Additionally, probe features such as their GC content, number of CpG dinucleotides, sequence complexity and entropy and self-annealing properties need to be carefully addressed during the design stage of the capture assay. The experimental conditions and probe molecular features identified in this study will improve the recovery of genetic information extracted from degraded and ancient remains.	2017 May	Cruz-Dávalos, Diana I; Cruz-Dávalos, DI; Cruz-Dávalos; Llamas, Bastien; Llamas, B; Llamas; Gaunitz, Charleen; Gaunitz, C; Gaunitz; Fages, Antoine; Fages, A; Fages; Gamba, Cristina; Gamba, C; Gamba; Soubrier, Julien; Soubrier, J; Soubrier; Librado, Pablo; Librado, P; Librado; Seguin-Orlando, Andaine; Seguin-Orlando, A; Seguin-Orlando; Pruvost, Mélanie; Pruvost, M; Pruvost; Alfarhan, Ahmed H; Alfarhan, AH; Alfarhan; Alquraishi, Saleh A; Alquraishi, SA; Alquraishi; Al-Rasheid, Khaled A S; Al-Rasheid, KAS; Al-Rasheid; Scheu, Amelie; Scheu, A; Scheu; Beneke, Norbert; Beneke, N; Beneke; Ludwig, Arne; Ludwig, A; Ludwig; Cooper, Alan; Cooper, A; Cooper; Willerslev, Eske; Willerslev, E; Willerslev; Orlando, Ludovic; Orlando, L; Orlando	Mol Ecol Resour
28438469	Regulation of conjugative transfer of plasmids and integrative conjugative elements.	Horizontal gene transfer has been recognized as one of the principal contributors to bacterial evolution and diversification. One of the mechanisms involved in this process is conjugative transfer of plasmids and Integrative Conjugative Elements (ICEs). Plasmids and ICEs often encode traits beneficial for bacterial survival in specific environments, or for the establishment of symbiosis or pathogenesis, in addition to genes allowing conjugative transfer. In this review, we analyze the mechanisms that regulate the expression of conjugative transfer genes. For traits such as antibiotic or metal resistance, the compounds involved may induce conjugative transfer directly, while symbiosis and pathogenesis are modulated by quorum-sensing and/or signal molecules released by the host. However, multiple layers of regulation are usually involved in modulating transfer. In addition to the plasmid-encoded regulatory elements, conjugation seems to be regulated by what we have labeled as the "internal environment", defined by the interaction between the host chromosome and the plasmids or ICEs. Another regulatory level depends on the "external environment", which affects conjugative transfer due to the composition and conditions of the community.	2017 05	Bañuelos-Vazquez, Luis Alfredo; Bañuelos-Vazquez, LA; Bañuelos-Vazquez; Torres Tejerizo, Gonzalo; Torres Tejerizo, G; Torres Tejerizo; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom	Plasmid
29382488	The dawn and the first twenty-five years of proteomics in Mexico: a personal chronicle.	This review does not aim to be an up-to-date of proteomics in Mexico; it simply tries to trace its development, exposing the story of the researchers, laboratories and some institutions that have contributed to the establishment and development of this science in Mexico.	2017 May - Jun	Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara	Bol Med Hosp Infant Mex
28605770	Improving biocuration of microRNAs in diseases: a case study in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small and non-coding RNA molecules that inhibit gene expression posttranscriptionally. They play important roles in several biological processes, and in recent years there has been an interest in studying how they are related to the pathogenesis of diseases. Although there are already some databases that contain information for miRNAs and their relation with illnesses, their curation represents a significant challenge due to the amount of information that is being generated every day. In particular, respiratory diseases are poorly documented in databases, despite the fact that they are of increasing concern regarding morbidity, mortality and economic impacts. In this work, we present the results that we obtained in the BioCreative Interactive Track (IAT), using a semiautomatic approach for improving biocuration of miRNAs related to diseases. Our procedures will be useful to complement databases that contain this type of information. We adapted the OntoGene text mining pipeline and the ODIN curation system in a full-text corpus of scientific publications concerning one specific respiratory disease: idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, the most common and aggressive of the idiopathic interstitial cases of pneumonia. We curated 823 miRNA text snippets and found a total of 246 miRNAs related to this disease based on our semiautomatic approach with the system OntoGene/ODIN. The biocuration throughput improved by a factor of 12 compared with traditional manual biocuration. A significant advantage of our semiautomatic pipeline is that it can be applied to obtain the miRNAs of all the respiratory diseases and offers the possibility to be used for other illnesses.	2017 01	Balderas-Martínez, Yalbi Itzel; Balderas-Martínez, YI; Balderas-Martínez; Rinaldi, Fabio; Rinaldi, F; Rinaldi; Contreras, Gabriela; Contreras, G; Contreras; Solano-Lira, Hilda; Solano-Lira, H; Solano-Lira; Sánchez-Pérez, Mishael; Sánchez-Pérez, M; Sánchez-Pérez; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Selman, Moisés; Selman, M; Selman; Pardo, Annie; Pardo, A; Pardo	Database (Oxford)
28419102	Effect of genomic distance on coexpression of coregulated genes in E. coli.	In prokaryotes, genomic distance is a feature that in addition to coregulation affects coexpression. Several observations, such as genomic clustering of highly coexpressed small regulons, support the idea that coexpression behavior of coregulated genes is affected by the distance between the coregulated genes. However, the specific contribution of distance in addition to coregulation in determining the degree of coexpression has not yet been studied systematically. In this work, we exploit the rich information in RegulonDB to study how the genomic distance between coregulated genes affects their degree of coexpression, measured by pairwise similarity of expression profiles obtained under a large number of conditions. We observed that, in general, coregulated genes display higher degrees of coexpression as they are more closely located on the genome. This contribution of genomic distance in determining the degree of coexpression was relatively small compared to the degree of coexpression that was determined by the tightness of the coregulation (degree of overlap of regulatory programs) but was shown to be evolutionary constrained. In addition, the distance effect was sufficient to guarantee coexpression of coregulated genes that are located at very short distances, irrespective of their tightness of coregulation. This is partly but definitely not always because the close distance is also the cause of the coregulation. In cases where it is not, we hypothesize that the effect of the distance on coexpression could be caused by the fact that coregulated genes closely located to each other are also relatively more equidistantly located from their common TF and therefore subject to more similar levels of TF molecules. The absolute genomic distance of the coregulated genes to their common TF-coding gene tends to be less important in determining the degree of coexpression. Our results pinpoint the importance of taking into account the combined effect of distance and coregulation when studying prokaryotic coexpression and transcriptional regulation.	2017	Pannier, Lucia; Pannier, L; Pannier; Merino, Enrique; Merino, E; Merino; Marchal, Kathleen; Marchal, K; Marchal; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	PLoS One
28167520	A New Essential Cell Division Protein in Caulobacter crescentus.	Bacterial cell division is a complex process that relies on a multiprotein complex composed of a core of widely conserved and generally essential proteins and on accessory proteins that vary in number and identity in different bacteria. The assembly of this complex and, particularly, the initiation of constriction are regulated processes that have come under intensive study. In this work, we characterize the function of DipI, a protein conserved in <i>Alphaproteobacteria</i> and <i>Betaproteobacteria</i> that is essential in <i>Caulobacter crescentus</i> Our results show that DipI is a periplasmic protein that is recruited late to the division site and that it is required for the initiation of constriction. The recruitment of the conserved cell division proteins is not affected by the absence of DipI, but localization of DipI to the division site occurs only after a mature divisome has formed. Yeast two-hybrid analysis showed that DipI strongly interacts with the FtsQLB complex, which has been recently implicated in regulating constriction initiation. A possible role of DipI in this process is discussed.<b>IMPORTANCE</b> Bacterial cell division is a complex process for which most bacterial cells assemble a multiprotein complex that consists of conserved proteins and of accessory proteins that differ among bacterial groups. In this work, we describe a new cell division protein (DipI) present only in a group of bacteria but essential in <i>Caulobacter crescentus</i> Cells devoid of DipI cannot constrict. Although a mature divisome is required for DipI recruitment, DipI is not needed for recruiting other division proteins. These results, together with the interaction of DipI with a protein complex that has been suggested to regulate cell wall synthesis during division, suggest that DipI may be part of the regulatory mechanism that controls constriction initiation.	2017 04	Osorio, Aurora; Osorio, A; Osorio; Camarena, Laura; Camarena, L; Camarena; Cevallos, Miguel Angel; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Poggio, Sebastian; Poggio, S; Poggio	J Bacteriol
28096304	Antibiotic Cycling and Antibiotic Mixing: Which One Best Mitigates Antibiotic Resistance?	Can we exploit our burgeoning understanding of molecular evolution to slow the progress of drug resistance? One role of an infection clinician is exactly that: to foresee trajectories to resistance during antibiotic treatment and to hinder that evolutionary course. But can this be done at a hospital-wide scale? Clinicians and theoreticians tried to when they proposed two conflicting behavioral strategies that are expected to curb resistance evolution in the clinic, these are known as "antibiotic cycling" and "antibiotic mixing." However, the accumulated data from clinical trials, now approaching 4 million patient days of treatment, is too variable for cycling or mixing to be deemed successful. The former implements the restriction and prioritization of different antibiotics at different times in hospitals in a manner said to "cycle" between them. In antibiotic mixing, appropriate antibiotics are allocated to patients but randomly. Mixing results in no correlation, in time or across patients, in the drugs used for treatment which is why theorists saw this as an optimal behavioral strategy. So while cycling and mixing were proposed as ways of controlling evolution, we show there is good reason why clinical datasets cannot choose between them: by re-examining the theoretical literature we show prior support for the theoretical optimality of mixing was misplaced. Our analysis is consistent with a pattern emerging in data: neither cycling or mixing is a priori better than the other at mitigating selection for antibiotic resistance in the clinic.	2017 04	Beardmore, Robert Eric; Beardmore, RE; Beardmore; Peña-Miller, Rafael; Peña-Miller, R; Peña-Miller; Gori, Fabio; Gori, F; Gori; Iredell, Jonathan; Iredell, J; Iredell	Mol Biol Evol
28428300	Draft Genome Sequence of <i>Enterococcus casseliflavus</i> PAVET15 Obtained from the Oviduct Infection of the Cattle Tick (<i>Rhipicephalus microplus</i>) in Jiutepec, Morelos, Mexico.	<i>Enterococcus</i> spp. are Gram-positive lactic acid-producing bacteria found in the intestinal tracts of animals, like mammals, birds, and arthropods. <i>Enterococcus</i> spp. may cause oportunistic infections in vertebrate and invertebrate hosts. We report here the draft genome sequence of <i>Enterococcus casseliflavus</i> PAVET15 containing 3,722,480 bp, with 80 contigs, an <i>N</i><sub>50</sub> of 179,476 bp, and 41.93% G+C content.	2017 Apr	Cossío-Bayúgar, R; Cossío-Bayúgar, R; Cossío-Bayúgar; Miranda-Miranda, E; Miranda-Miranda, E; Miranda-Miranda; Arreguín-Pérez, C A; Arreguín-Pérez, CA; Arreguín-Pérez; Lozano, L; Lozano, L; Lozano; Peréz de la Rosa, D; Peréz de la Rosa, D; Peréz de la Rosa; Rocha-Martínez, M K; Rocha-Martínez, MK; Rocha-Martínez; Bravo-Díaz, M A; Bravo-Díaz, MA; Bravo-Díaz; Sachman-Ruiz, B; Sachman-Ruiz, B; Sachman-Ruiz	Genome Announc
28365731	Strategies towards digital and semi-automated curation in RegulonDB.	Experimentally generated biological information needs to be organized and structured in order to become meaningful knowledge. However, the rate at which new information is being published makes manual curation increasingly unable to cope. Devising new curation strategies that leverage upon data mining and text analysis is, therefore, a promising avenue to help life science databases to cope with the deluge of novel information. In this article, we describe the integration of text mining technologies in the curation pipeline of the RegulonDB database, and discuss how the process can enhance the productivity of the curators. Specifically, a named entity recognition approach is used to pre-annotate terms referring to a set of domain entities which are potentially relevant for the curation process. The annotated documents are presented to the curator, who, thanks to a custom-designed interface, can select sentences containing specific types of entities, thus restricting the amount of text that needs to be inspected. Additionally, a module capable of computing semantic similarity between sentences across the entire collection of articles to be curated is being integrated in the system. We tested the module using three sets of scientific articles and six domain experts. All these improvements are gradually enabling us to obtain a high throughput curation process with the same quality as manual curation.	2017 01	Rinaldi, Fabio; Rinaldi, F; Rinaldi; Lithgow, Oscar; Lithgow, O; Lithgow; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Solano, Hilda; Solano, H; Solano; Lopez, Alejandra; Lopez, A; Lopez; Muñiz Rascado, Luis José; Muñiz Rascado, LJ; Muñiz Rascado; Ishida-Gutiérrez, Cecilia; Ishida-Gutiérrez, C; Ishida-Gutiérrez; Méndez-Cruz, Carlos-Francisco; Méndez-Cruz, CF; Méndez-Cruz; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Database (Oxford)
28009086	1,2-Diacylglycerol choline phosphotransferase catalyzes the final step in the unique Treponema denticola phosphatidylcholine biosynthesis pathway.	Treponema denticola synthesizes phosphatidylcholine through a licCA-dependent CDP-choline pathway identified only in the genus Treponema. However, the mechanism of conversion of CDP-choline to phosphatidylcholine remained unclear. We report here characterization of TDE0021 (herein designated cpt) encoding a 1,2-diacylglycerol choline phosphotransferase homologous to choline phosphotransferases that catalyze the final step of the highly conserved Kennedy pathway for phosphatidylcholine synthesis in eukaryotes. T. denticola Cpt catalyzed in vitro phosphatidylcholine formation from CDP-choline and diacylglycerol, and full activity required divalent manganese. Allelic replacement mutagenesis of cpt in T. denticola resulted in abrogation of phosphatidylcholine synthesis. T. denticola Cpt complemented a Saccharomyces cerevisiae CPT1 mutant, and expression of the entire T. denticola LicCA-Cpt pathway in E. coli resulted in phosphatidylcholine biosynthesis. Our findings show that T. denticola possesses a unique phosphatidylcholine synthesis pathway combining conserved prokaryotic choline kinase and CTP:phosphocholine cytidylyltransferase activities with a 1,2-diacylglycerol choline phosphotransferase that is common in eukaryotes. Other than in a subset of mammalian host-associated Treponema that includes T. pallidum, this pathway is found in neither bacteria nor Archaea. Molecular dating analysis of the Cpt gene family suggests that a horizontal gene transfer event introduced this gene into an ancestral Treponema well after its divergence from other spirochetes.	2017 03	Vences-Guzmán, Miguel Ángel; Vences-Guzmán, MÁ; Vences-Guzmán; Paula Goetting-Minesky, M; Paula Goetting-Minesky, M; Paula Goetting-Minesky; Guan, Ziqiang; Guan, Z; Guan; Castillo-Ramirez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramirez, S; Castillo-Ramirez; Córdoba-Castro, Luz América; Córdoba-Castro, LA; Córdoba-Castro; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Christopher Fenno, J; Christopher Fenno, J; Christopher Fenno	Mol Microbiol
27852447	A polyclonal outbreak of bloodstream infections by Enterococcus faecium in patients with hematologic malignancies.	Enterococcus faecium causes bloodstream infection (BSI) in patients with hematologic malignancies (HMs). We studied the clinical features and outcomes of patients with HM with vancomycin-sensitive E faecium (VSE) and vancomycin-resistant E faecium (VRE) BSI and determined the genetic relatedness of isolates and circumstances associated with the upsurge of E faecium BSI.	2017 Mar	Alatorre-Fernández, Pamela; Alatorre-Fernández, P; Alatorre-Fernández; Mayoral-Terán, Claudia; Mayoral-Terán, C; Mayoral-Terán; Velázquez-Acosta, Consuelo; Velázquez-Acosta, C; Velázquez-Acosta; Franco-Rodríguez, Cecilia; Franco-Rodríguez, C; Franco-Rodríguez; Flores-Moreno, Karen; Flores-Moreno, K; Flores-Moreno; Cevallos, Miguel Ángel; Cevallos, MÁ; Cevallos; López-Vidal, Yolanda; López-Vidal, Y; López-Vidal; Volkow-Fernández, Patricia; Volkow-Fernández, P; Volkow-Fernández	Am J Infect Control
28302777	Complete Genome Sequences of Three <i>Rhizobium gallicum</i> Symbionts Associated with Common Bean (<i>Phaseolus vulgaris</i>).	The whole-genome sequences of three strains of <i>Rhizobium gallicum</i> reported here support the concept that the distinct nodulation host ranges displayed by the symbiovars gallicum and phaseoli can be largely explained by different symbiotic plasmids.	2017 Mar	Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Santamaría, Rosa Isela; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Pérez-Carrascal, Olga María; Pérez-Carrascal, OM; Pérez-Carrascal; Acosta, José Luis; Acosta, JL; Acosta; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Juárez, Soledad; Juárez, S; Juárez; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Cevallos, Miguel Ángel; Cevallos, MÁ; Cevallos; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Miranda, Fabiola; Miranda, F; Miranda; Ormeño, Ernesto; Ormeño, E; Ormeño; González, Víctor; González, V; González	Genome Announc
28286733	Premammalian origin of the sperm-specific Slo3 channel.	Slo3 is a sperm-specific potassium (K<sup>+</sup>) channel essential for male fertility. Slo3 channels have so far been considered to be specific to mammals. Through exploratory genomics, we identified the <i>Slo3</i> gene in the genome of terrestrial (birds and reptiles) and aquatic (fish) vertebrates. In the case of fish, <i>Slo3</i> has undergone several episodes of gene loss. Transcriptomic analysis showed that vertebrate Slo3 transcript orthologues are predominantly expressed in testis, in concordance with the mammalian Slo3. We conclude that the <i>Slo3</i> gene arose during the radiation of early vertebrates, much earlier than previously thought. Our findings add to the growing evidence indicating that the phylogenetic profiles of sperm-specific channels are intermittent throughout metazoan evolution, which probably reflects the adaptation of sperm to different ionic milieus and fertilization environments.	2017 Mar	Vicens, Alberto; Vicens, A; Vicens; Andrade-López, Karla; Andrade-López, K; Andrade-López; Cortez, Diego; Cortez, D; Cortez; Gutiérrez, Rosa María; Gutiérrez, RM; Gutiérrez; Treviño, Claudia L; Treviño, CL; Treviño	FEBS Open Bio
28228131	Whole genome sequencing of one complex pedigree illustrates challenges with genomic medicine.	Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has risen as a useful tool for precision medicine by providing a standardized vocabulary of phenotypic abnormalities to describe presentations of human pathologies; however, there have been relatively few reports combining whole genome sequencing (WGS) and HPO, especially in the context of structural variants.	2017 02	Fang, Han; Fang, H; Fang; Wu, Yiyang; Wu, Y; Wu; Yang, Hui; Yang, H; Yang; Yoon, Margaret; Yoon, M; Yoon; Jiménez-Barrón, Laura T; Jiménez-Barrón, LT; Jiménez-Barrón; Mittelman, David; Mittelman, D; Mittelman; Robison, Reid; Robison, R; Robison; Wang, Kai; Wang, K; Wang; Lyon, Gholson J; Lyon, GJ; Lyon	BMC Med Genomics
28261241	Analysis of Plant Pan-Genomes and Transcriptomes with GET_HOMOLOGUES-EST, a Clustering Solution for Sequences of the Same Species.	The pan-genome of a species is defined as the union of all the genes and non-coding sequences found in all its individuals. However, constructing a pan-genome for plants with large genomes is daunting both in sequencing cost and the scale of the required computational analysis. A more affordable alternative is to focus on the genic repertoire by using transcriptomic data. Here, the software GET_HOMOLOGUES-EST was benchmarked with genomic and RNA-seq data of 19 <i>Arabidopsis thaliana</i> ecotypes and then applied to the analysis of transcripts from 16 <i>Hordeum vulgare</i> genotypes. The goal was to sample their pan-genomes and classify sequences as core, if detected in all accessions, or accessory, when absent in some of them. The resulting sequence clusters were used to simulate pan-genome growth, and to compile Average Nucleotide Identity matrices that summarize intra-species variation. Although transcripts were found to under-estimate pan-genome size by at least 10%, we concluded that clusters of expressed sequences can recapitulate phylogeny and reproduce two properties observed in <i>A. thaliana</i> gene models: accessory loci show lower expression and higher non-synonymous substitution rates than core genes. Finally, accessory sequences were observed to preferentially encode transposon components in both species, plus disease resistance genes in cultivated barleys, and a variety of protein domains from other families that appear frequently associated with presence/absence variation in the literature. These results demonstrate that pan-genome analyses are useful to explore germplasm diversity.	2017	Contreras-Moreira, Bruno; Contreras-Moreira, B; Contreras-Moreira; Cantalapiedra, Carlos P; Cantalapiedra, CP; Cantalapiedra; García-Pereira, María J; García-Pereira, MJ; García-Pereira; Gordon, Sean P; Gordon, SP; Gordon; Vogel, John P; Vogel, JP; Vogel; Igartua, Ernesto; Igartua, E; Igartua; Casas, Ana M; Casas, AM; Casas; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa	Front Plant Sci
28261262	The Evolutionary Relationship between Alternative Splicing and Gene Duplication.	The protein diversity that exists today has resulted from various evolutionary processes. It is well known that gene duplication (GD) along with the accumulation of mutations are responsible, among other factors, for an increase in the number of different proteins. The gene structure in eukaryotes requires the removal of non-coding sequences, introns, to produce mature mRNAs. This process, known as <i>cis</i>-splicing, referred to here as splicing, is regulated by several factors which can lead to numerous splicing arrangements, commonly designated as alternative splicing (AS). AS, producing several transcripts isoforms form a single gene, also increases the protein diversity. However, the evolution and manner for increasing protein variation differs between AS and GD. An important question is how are patterns of AS affected after a GD event. Here, we review the current knowledge of AS and GD, focusing on their evolutionary relationship. These two processes are now considered the main contributors to the increasing protein diversity and therefore their relationship is a relevant, yet understudied, area of evolutionary study.	2017	Iñiguez, Luis P; Iñiguez, LP; Iñiguez; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	Front Genet
28017900	The <sup>95</sup><sup>Δ</sup>G mutation in the 5'untranslated region of the norA gene increases efflux activity in Staphylococcus epidermidis isolates.	In the Staphylococcus aureus ATCC25923 strain, the flqB mutation in the 5'untranslated region (5'UTR) of the norA gene causes increased norA mRNA expression and high efflux activity (HEA). The involvement of the norA gene 5'UTR in HEA has not been explored in S. epidermidis; therefore, we examined the function of this region in S. epidermidis clinical isolates. The selection of isolates with HEA was performed based on ethidium bromide (EtBr) MIC values and efflux efficiency (EF) using the semi-automated fluorometric method. The function of the 5'UTR was studied by quantifying the levels of norA expression (RT-qPCR) and by identifying 5'UTR mutations by sequence analysis. Only 10 isolates from a total of 165 (6.1%) had HEA (EtBr MIC = 300 μg/ml and EF ranged from 48.4 to 97.2%). Eight of 10 isolates with HEA had the 5'UTR <sup>95</sup><sup>Δ</sup>G mutation. Isolates carrying the <sup>95</sup><sup>Δ</sup>G mutation had higher levels of norA expression compared with those that did not. To corroborate that the <sup>95</sup><sup>Δ</sup>G mutation is involved in HEA, a strain adapted to EtBr was obtained in vitro. This strain also presented the <sup>95</sup><sup>Δ</sup>G mutation and had a high level of norA expression and EF, indicating that the <sup>95</sup><sup>Δ</sup>G mutation is important for the HEA phenotype. The <sup>95</sup><sup>Δ</sup>G mutation produces a different structure in the Shine-Dalgarno region, which may promote better translation of norA mRNA. To our knowledge, this is the first report to demonstrate the participation of the 5'UTR <sup>95</sup><sup>Δ</sup>G mutation of the norA gene in the HEA phenotype of S. epidermidis isolates. Here, we propose that the efflux of EtBr is caused by an increment in the transcription and/or translation of the norA gene.	2017 Feb	García-Gómez, Elizabeth; García-Gómez, E; García-Gómez; Jaso-Vera, Marcos E; Jaso-Vera, ME; Jaso-Vera; Juárez-Verdayes, Marco A; Juárez-Verdayes, MA; Juárez-Verdayes; Alcántar-Curiel, María D; Alcántar-Curiel, MD; Alcántar-Curiel; Zenteno, Juan C; Zenteno, JC; Zenteno; Betanzos-Cabrera, Gabriel; Betanzos-Cabrera, G; Betanzos-Cabrera; Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta; Rodríguez-Martínez, Sandra; Rodríguez-Martínez, S; Rodríguez-Martínez; Cancino-Díaz, Mario E; Cancino-Díaz, ME; Cancino-Díaz; Jan-Roblero, Janet; Jan-Roblero, J; Jan-Roblero; Cancino-Diaz, Juan C; Cancino-Diaz, JC; Cancino-Diaz	Microb Pathog
28126941	Genome Sequence of the Symbiotic Type Strain Rhizobium tibeticum CCBAU85039T.	Rhizobium tibeticum was originally isolated from root nodules of Trigonella archiducis-nicolai grown in Tibet, China. This species is also able to nodulate Medicago sativa and Phaseolus vulgaris The whole-genome sequence of the type strain, R. tibeticum CCBAU85039<sup>T</sup>, is reported in this study.	2017 Jan	Torres Tejerizo, Gonzalo; Torres Tejerizo, G; Torres Tejerizo; Wibberg, Daniel; Wibberg, D; Wibberg; Winkler, Anika; Winkler, A; Winkler; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Niehaus, Karsten; Niehaus, K; Niehaus; Pühler, Alfred; Pühler, A; Pühler; Kalinowski, Jörn; Kalinowski, J; Kalinowski; Lagares, Antonio; Lagares, A; Lagares; Schlüter, Andreas; Schlüter, A; Schlüter; Pistorio, Mariano; Pistorio, M; Pistorio	Genome Announc
27746255	Lysine acetylation and cancer: A proteomics perspective.	Lysine acetylation is a reversible modification controlled by two groups of enzymes: lysine acetyltransferases (KATs) and lysine deacetylases (KDACs). Acetylated lysine residues are recognized by bromodomains, a family of evolutionarily conserved domains. The use of high-resolution mass spectrometry-based proteomics, in combination with the enrichment of acetylated peptides through immunoprecipitation with anti-acetyl-lysine antibodies, has expanded the number of acetylated proteins from histones and a few nuclear proteins to more than 2000 human proteins. Because acetylation targets almost all cellular processes, this modification has been associated with cancer. Several KATs, KDACs and bromodomain-containing proteins have been linked to cancer development. Many small molecules targeting some of these proteins have been or are being tested as potential cancer therapies. The stoichiometry of lysine acetylation has not been explored in cancer, representing a promising field in which to increase our knowledge of how this modification is affected in cancer. In this review, we will focus on the strategies that can be used to go deeper in the characterization of the protein lysine acetylation emphasizing in cancer research.	2017 01	Gil, Jeovanis; Gil, J; Gil; Ramírez-Torres, Alberto; Ramírez-Torres, A; Ramírez-Torres; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara	J Proteomics
29083947	A deeper mining on the protein composition of VA-MENGOC-BC®: An OMV-based vaccine against N. meningitidis serogroup B and C.	The protein composition of an Outer Membrane Vesicle (OMV) preparation that constitutes the active pharmaceutical ingredient of VA-MENGOC-BC®, an effective vaccine against Neisseria meningitidis serogroups B, and C is presented. This preparation has a high lipid content and five abundant membrane proteins (FetA, PorA, PorB, RmpM, and Opc), constituting approximately 70% of the total protein mass. The protein composition was determined by combining the use of the Hexapeptide Ligand Library and an orthogonal tandem fractionation of tryptic peptides by reverse-phase chromatography at alkaline and acid pH. This approach equalizes the concentration of tryptic peptides derived from low- and high-abundance proteins as well as considerably simplifying the number of peptides analyzed by LC-MS/MS, enhancing the possibility of identifying low-abundance species. Fifty-one percent of the proteins originally annotated as membrane proteins in the genome of the MC58 strain were identified. One hundred and sixty-eight low-abundance cytosolic proteins presumably occluded within OMV were also identified. Four (NadA, NUbp, GNA2091, and fHbp), out of the five antigens constituting the Bexsero® vaccine, were detected in this OMV preparation. In particular, fHbp is also the active principle of the Trumenba® vaccine developed by Pfizer. The HpuA and HpuB gene products (not annotated in the MC58 genome) were identified in the CU385 strain, a clinical isolate that is used to produce this OMV. Considering the proteins identified here and previous work done by our group, the protein catalogue of this OMV preparation was extended to 266 different protein species.	2017 11	Masforrol, Yordanka; Masforrol, Y; Masforrol; Gil, Jeovanis; Gil, J; Gil; García, Darien; García, D; García; Noda, Jesús; Noda, J; Noda; Ramos, Yassel; Ramos, Y; Ramos; Betancourt, Lázaro; Betancourt, L; Betancourt; Guirola, Osmany; Guirola, O; Guirola; González, Sonia; González, S; González; Acevedo, Boris; Acevedo, B; Acevedo; Besada, Vladimir; Besada, V; Besada; Reyes, Osvaldo; Reyes, O; Reyes; González, Luis Javier; González, LJ; González	Hum Vaccin Immunother
29106540	A Journey across Genomes Uncovers the Origin of Ubiquinone in Cyanobacteria.	Ubiquinone (Q) is an isoprenoid quinone that functions as membrane electron carrier in mitochondria and bacterial organisms belonging to the alpha, beta, and gamma class of proteobacteria. The biosynthesis of Q follows various biochemical steps catalyzed by diverse proteins that are, in general, homologous in mitochondria and bacteria. Nonorthologous proteins can also contribute to some biochemical steps as originally uncovered in Escherichia coli, which is the best studied organism for Q biosynthesis in prokaryotes. However, the origin of the biosynthetic pathway of Q has remained obscure. Here, I show by genome analysis that Q biosynthesis originated in cyanobacteria and then diversified in anaerobic alpha proteobacteria which have extant relatives in members of the Rhodospirillaceae family. Two distinct biochemical pathways diverged when ambient oxygen reached current levels on earth, one leading to the well-known series of Ubi genes found in E. coli, and the other containing CoQ proteins originally found in eukaryotes. Extant alpha proteobacteria show Q biosynthesis pathways that are more similar to that present in mitochondria than to that of E. coli. Hence, this work clarifies not only the origin but also the evolution of Q biosynthesis from bacteria to mitochondria.	2017 Nov	Degli Esposti, Mauro; Degli Esposti, M; Degli Esposti	Genome Biol Evol
28883130	Draft Genome Sequence of a <i>Pseudomonas aeruginosa</i> NA04 Bacterium Isolated from an Entomopathogenic Nematode.	We report the draft genome sequence of Gram-negative bacterium <i>Pseudomonas aeruginosa</i> NA04, isolated from the entomopathogenic nematode <i>Heterorhabditis indica</i> MOR03. The draft genome consists of 54 contigs, a length of 6.37 Mb, and a G+C content 66.49%.	2017 Sep	Salgado-Morales, Rosalba; Salgado-Morales, R; Salgado-Morales; Rivera-Gómez, Nancy; Rivera-Gómez, N; Rivera-Gómez; Lozano-Aguirre Beltrán, Luis Fernando; Lozano-Aguirre Beltrán, LF; Lozano-Aguirre Beltrán; Hernández-Mendoza, Armando; Hernández-Mendoza, A; Hernández-Mendoza; Dantán-González, Edgar; Dantán-González, E; Dantán-González	Genome Announc
29220462	First steps in automatic summarization of transcription factor properties for RegulonDB: classification of sentences about structural domains and regulated processes.	RegulonDB, http://regulondb.ccg.unam.mx.	2017 01	Méndez-Cruz, Carlos-Francisco; Méndez-Cruz, CF; Méndez-Cruz; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Mejía-Almonte, Citlalli; Mejía-Almonte, C; Mejía-Almonte; Castillo-Villalba, Marco-Polo; Castillo-Villalba, MP; Castillo-Villalba; Muñiz-Rascado, Luis-José; Muñiz-Rascado, LJ; Muñiz-Rascado; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Database (Oxford)
28546491	Genome Sequence of <i>Acinetobacter lactucae</i> OTEC-02, Isolated from Hydrocarbon-Contaminated Soil.	<i>Acinetobacter lactucae</i> OTEC-02 was isolated from hydrocarbon-contaminated soils. Whole-genome sequence analysis was performed to learn more about the strain's ability to degrade different types of recalcitrant toxic monoaromatic hydrocarbons. The genome of this bacterium revealed its genomic properties and versatile metabolic features, as well as a complete prophage.	2017 May	Rogel-Hernandez, Marco Antonio; Rogel-Hernandez, MA; Rogel-Hernandez; Guerrero, Gabriela; Guerrero, G; Guerrero; Rincón-Molina, Clara Ivette; Rincón-Molina, CI; Rincón-Molina; Ruiz-Valdiviezo, Víctor Manuel; Ruiz-Valdiviezo, VM; Ruiz-Valdiviezo; Cisneros-Pérez, Crhistian; Cisneros-Pérez, C; Cisneros-Pérez; Castañón-Gonzalez, José Humberto; Castañón-Gonzalez, JH; Castañón-Gonzalez; López-López, Aline; López-López, A; López-López; Martinez-Romero, Esperanza; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Rincón-Rosales, Reiner; Rincón-Rosales, R; Rincón-Rosales	Genome Announc
28232434	Genome Sequence of Enterotoxigenic <i>Escherichia coli</i> Strain FMU073332.	Enterotoxigenic <i>Escherichia coli</i> (ETEC) is an important cause of bacterial diarrheal illness, affecting practically every population worldwide, and was estimated to cause 120,800 deaths in 2010. Here, we report the genome sequence of ETEC strain FMU073332, isolated from a 25-month-old girl from Tlaltizapán, Morelos, México.	2017 Feb	Saldaña-Ahuactzi, Zeus; Saldaña-Ahuactzi, Z; Saldaña-Ahuactzi; Cruz-Córdova, Ariadnna; Cruz-Córdova, A; Cruz-Córdova; Rodea, Gerardo E; Rodea, GE; Rodea; Porta, Helena; Porta, H; Porta; Navarro-Ocaña, Armando; Navarro-Ocaña, A; Navarro-Ocaña; Eslava-Campos, Carlos; Eslava-Campos, C; Eslava-Campos; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Xicohtencatl-Cortes, Juan; Xicohtencatl-Cortes, J; Xicohtencatl-Cortes	Genome Announc
27899573	The EcoCyc database: reflecting new knowledge about Escherichia coli K-12.	EcoCyc (EcoCyc.org) is a freely accessible, comprehensive database that collects and summarizes experimental data for Escherichia coli K-12, the best-studied bacterial model organism. New experimental discoveries about gene products, their function and regulation, new metabolic pathways, enzymes and cofactors are regularly added to EcoCyc. New SmartTable tools allow users to browse collections of related EcoCyc content. SmartTables can also serve as repositories for user- or curator-generated lists. EcoCyc now supports running and modifying E. coli metabolic models directly on the EcoCyc website.	2017 01	Keseler, Ingrid M; Keseler, IM; Keseler; Mackie, Amanda; Mackie, A; Mackie; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Billington, Richard; Billington, R; Billington; Bonavides-Martínez, César; Bonavides-Martínez, C; Bonavides-Martínez; Caspi, Ron; Caspi, R; Caspi; Fulcher, Carol; Fulcher, C; Fulcher; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Kothari, Anamika; Kothari, A; Kothari; Krummenacker, Markus; Krummenacker, M; Krummenacker; Latendresse, Mario; Latendresse, M; Latendresse; Muñiz-Rascado, Luis; Muñiz-Rascado, L; Muñiz-Rascado; Ong, Quang; Ong, Q; Ong; Paley, Suzanne; Paley, S; Paley; Peralta-Gil, Martin; Peralta-Gil, M; Peralta-Gil; Subhraveti, Pallavi; Subhraveti, P; Subhraveti; Velázquez-Ramírez, David A; Velázquez-Ramírez, DA; Velázquez-Ramírez; Weaver, Daniel; Weaver, D; Weaver; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Paulsen, Ian; Paulsen, I; Paulsen; Karp, Peter D; Karp, PD; Karp	Nucleic Acids Res
28659968	The Human Microbiome and the Missing Heritability Problem.	The "missing heritability" problem states that genetic variants in Genome-Wide Association Studies (GWAS) cannot completely explain the heritability of complex traits. Traditionally, the heritability of a phenotype is measured through familial studies using twins, siblings and other close relatives, making assumptions on the genetic similarities between them. When this heritability is compared to the one obtained through GWAS for the same traits, a substantial gap between both measurements arise with genome wide studies reporting significantly smaller values. Several mechanisms for this "missing heritability" have been proposed, such as epigenetics, epistasis, and sequencing depth. However, none of them are able to fully account for this gap in heritability. In this paper we provide evidence that suggests that in order for the phenotypic heritability of human traits to be broadly understood and accounted for, the compositional and functional diversity of the human microbiome must be taken into account. This hypothesis is based on several observations: (A) The composition of the human microbiome is associated with many important traits, including obesity, cancer, and neurological disorders. (B) Our microbiome encodes a second genome with nearly a 100 times more genes than the human genome, and this second genome may act as a rich source of genetic variation and phenotypic plasticity. (C) Human genotypes interact with the composition and structure of our microbiome, but cannot by themselves explain microbial variation. (D) Microbial genetic composition can be strongly influenced by the host's behavior, its environment or by vertical and horizontal transmissions from other hosts. Therefore, genetic similarities assumed in familial studies may cause overestimations of heritability values. We also propose a method that allows the compositional and functional diversity of our microbiome to be incorporated to genome wide association studies.	2017	Sandoval-Motta, Santiago; Sandoval-Motta, S; Sandoval-Motta; Aldana, Maximino; Aldana, M; Aldana; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Frank, Alejandro; Frank, A; Frank	Front Genet
27814642	The long story of mitochondrial DNA and respiratory complex I.	This article examines the long story of the relationship between mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and respiratory complex I, NADH:Ubiquinone Oxidoreductase, from its beginning  in the genome of the bacterial endosymbiont which then evolved into the mitochondria of our cells. The story begins with the evolution of ancient forms of bacterial complex I into the Nuo14 complex I that was present in the alpha proteobacterial ancestor of mitochondria. The story then becomes complicated in the diversity of eukaryotic organisms that are currently recognized. Therefore, it does not have a clear end, because currently available information shows different situations of metabolic adaptation and gene loss, indicating cases of de-evolution of the original protonmotive complex into a system that may fundamentally assist [FeFe]-hydrogenases in re-oxidising metabolically produced NADH under anaerobic conditions. The history of complex I is thus a never ending story of molecular and physiological evolution producing new perspectives for studying the enzyme complex that occupies the largest proportion of mitochondrial DNA.	2017 01	Degli Esposti, Mauro; Degli Esposti, M; Degli Esposti	Front Biosci (Landmark Ed)
27958329	CircRNA accumulation in the aging mouse brain.	Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are a newly appreciated class of RNAs expressed across diverse phyla. These enigmatic transcripts are most commonly generated by back-splicing events from exons of protein-coding genes. This results in highly stable RNAs due to the lack of free 5' and 3' ends. CircRNAs are enriched in neural tissues, suggesting that they might have neural functions. Here, we sought to determine whether circRNA accumulation occurs during aging in mice. Total RNA-seq profiling of young (1 month old) and aged (22 month old) cortex, hippocampus and heart samples was performed. This led to the confident detection of 6,791 distinct circRNAs across these samples, including 675 novel circRNAs. Analysis uncovered a strong bias for circRNA upregulation during aging in neural tissues. These age-accumulation trends were verified for individual circRNAs by RT-qPCR and Northern analysis. In contrast, comparison of aged versus young hearts failed to reveal a global trend for circRNA upregulation. Age-accumulation of circRNAs in brain tissues was found to be largely independent from linear RNA expression of host genes. These findings suggest that circRNAs might play biological roles relevant to the aging nervous system.	2016 12	Gruner, Hannah; Gruner, H; Gruner; Cortés-López, Mariela; Cortés-López, M; Cortés-López; Cooper, Daphne A; Cooper, DA; Cooper; Bauer, Matthew; Bauer, M; Bauer; Miura, Pedro; Miura, P; Miura	Sci Rep
27854363	Indel variant analysis of short-read sequencing data with Scalpel.	As the second most common type of variation in the human genome, insertions and deletions (indels) have been linked to many diseases, but the discovery of indels of more than a few bases in size from short-read sequencing data remains challenging. Scalpel (http://scalpel.sourceforge.net) is an open-source software for reliable indel detection based on the microassembly technique. It has been successfully used to discover mutations in novel candidate genes for autism, and it is extensively used in other large-scale studies of human diseases. This protocol gives an overview of the algorithm and describes how to use Scalpel to perform highly accurate indel calling from whole-genome and whole-exome sequencing data. We provide detailed instructions for an exemplary family-based de novo study, but we also characterize the other two supported modes of operation: single-sample and somatic analysis. Indel normalization, visualization and annotation of the mutations are also illustrated. Using a standard server, indel discovery and characterization in the exonic regions of the example sequencing data can be completed in ∼5 h after read mapping.	2016 Dec	Fang, Han; Fang, H; Fang; Bergmann, Ewa A; Bergmann, EA; Bergmann; Arora, Kanika; Arora, K; Arora; Vacic, Vladimir; Vacic, V; Vacic; Zody, Michael C; Zody, MC; Zody; Iossifov, Ivan; Iossifov, I; Iossifov; O'Rawe, Jason A; O'Rawe, JA; O'Rawe; Wu, Yiyang; Wu, Y; Wu; Jimenez Barron, Laura T; Jimenez Barron, LT; Jimenez Barron; Rosenbaum, Julie; Rosenbaum, J; Rosenbaum; Ronemus, Michael; Ronemus, M; Ronemus; Lee, Yoon-Ha; Lee, YH; Lee; Wang, Zihua; Wang, Z; Wang; Dikoglu, Esra; Dikoglu, E; Dikoglu; Jobanputra, Vaidehi; Jobanputra, V; Jobanputra; Lyon, Gholson J; Lyon, GJ; Lyon; Wigler, Michael; Wigler, M; Wigler; Schatz, Michael C; Schatz, MC; Schatz; Narzisi, Giuseppe; Narzisi, G; Narzisi	Nat Protoc
27929718	Lotus japonicus NF-YA1 Plays an Essential Role During Nodule Differentiation and Targets Members of the SHI/STY Gene Family.	Legume plants engage in intimate relationships with rhizobial bacteria to form nitrogen-fixing nodules, root-derived organs that accommodate the microsymbiont. Members of the Nuclear Factor Y (NF-Y) gene family, which have undergone significant expansion and functional diversification during plant evolution, are essential for this symbiotic liaison. Acting in a partially redundant manner, NF-Y proteins were shown, previously, to regulate bacterial infection, including selection of a superior rhizobial strain, and to mediate nodule structure formation. However, the exact mechanism by which these transcriptional factors exert their symbiotic functions has remained elusive. By carrying out detailed functional analyses of Lotus japonicus mutants, we demonstrate that LjNF-YA1 becomes indispensable downstream from the initial cortical cell divisions but prior to nodule differentiation, including cell enlargement and vascular bundle formation. Three affiliates of the SHORT INTERNODES/STYLISH transcription factor gene family, called STY1, STY2, and STY3, are demonstrated to be among likely direct targets of LjNF-YA1, and our results point to their involvement in nodule formation.	2016 12	Hossain, Md Shakhawat; Hossain, MS; Hossain; Shrestha, Arina; Shrestha, A; Shrestha; Zhong, Sihui; Zhong, S; Zhong; Miri, Mandana; Miri, M; Miri; Austin, Ryan S; Austin, RS; Austin; Sato, Shusei; Sato, S; Sato; Ross, Loretta; Ross, L; Ross; Huebert, Terry; Huebert, T; Huebert; Tromas, Alexandre; Tromas, A; Tromas; Torres-Jerez, Ivone; Torres-Jerez, I; Torres-Jerez; Tang, Yuhong; Tang, Y; Tang; Udvardi, Michael; Udvardi, M; Udvardi; Murray, Jeremy D; Murray, JD; Murray; Szczyglowski, Krzysztof; Szczyglowski, K; Szczyglowski	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
27886269	In silico clustering of Salmonella global gene expression data reveals novel genes co-regulated with the SPI-1 virulence genes through HilD.	A wide variety of Salmonella enterica serovars cause intestinal and systemic infections to humans and animals. Salmonella Patogenicity Island 1 (SPI-1) is a chromosomal region containing 39 genes that have crucial virulence roles. The AraC-like transcriptional regulator HilD, encoded in SPI-1, positively controls the expression of the SPI-1 genes, as well as of several other virulence genes located outside SPI-1. In this study, we applied a clustering method to the global gene expression data of S. enterica serovar Typhimurium from the COLOMBOS database; thus genes that show an expression pattern similar to that of SPI-1 genes were selected. This analysis revealed nine novel genes that are co-expressed with SPI-1, which are located in different chromosomal regions. Expression analyses and protein-DNA interaction assays showed regulation by HilD for six of these genes: gtgE, phoH, sinR, SL1263 (lpxR) and SL4247 were regulated directly, whereas SL1896 was regulated indirectly. Interestingly, phoH is an ancestral gene conserved in most of bacteria, whereas the other genes show characteristics of genes acquired by Salmonella. A role in virulence has been previously demonstrated for gtgE, lpxR and sinR. Our results further expand the regulon of HilD and thus identify novel possible Salmonella virulence genes.	2016 11	Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; Pérez-Morales, Deyanira; Pérez-Morales, D; Pérez-Morales; Sánchez-Pérez, Mishael; Sánchez-Pérez, M; Sánchez-Pérez; Paredes, Claudia C; Paredes, CC; Paredes; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Bustamante, Víctor H; Bustamante, VH; Bustamante	Sci Rep
27911408	Defining Substrate Specificities for Lipase and Phospholipase Candidates.	Microorganisms produce a wide spectrum of (phospho)lipases that are secreted in order to make external substrates available for the organism. Alternatively, other (phospho)lipases may be physically associated with the producing organism causing a turnover of intrinsic lipids and frequently giving rise to a remodeling of the cellular membranes. Although potential (phospho)lipases can be predicted with a number of algorithms when the gene/protein sequence is available, experimental proof of the enzyme activities, substrate specificities, and potential physiological functions has frequently not been obtained. This manuscript describes the optimization of assay conditions for prospective (phospho)lipases with unknown substrate specificities and how to employ these optimized conditions in the search for the natural substrate of a respective (phospho)lipase. Using artificial chromogenic substrates, such as p-nitrophenyl derivatives, may help to detect a minor enzymatic activity for a predicted (phospho)lipase under standard conditions. Having encountered such a minor enzymatic activity, the distinct parameters of an enzyme assay can be varied in order to obtain a more efficient hydrolysis of the artificial substrate. After having determined the conditions under which an enzyme works well, a variety of potential natural substrates should be assayed for their degradation, a process that can be followed employing distinct chromatographic methods. The definition of substrate specificities for new enzymes, often provides hypotheses for a potential physiological role of these enzymes, which then can be tested experimentally. Following these guidelines, we were able to identify a phospholipase C (SMc00171) that degrades phosphatidylcholine to phosphocholine and diacylglycerol, in a crucial step for the remodeling of membranes in the bacterium Sinorhizobium meliloti upon phosphorus-limiting conditions of growth. For two predicted patatin-like phospholipases (SMc00930 and SMc01003) of the same organism, we could redefine their substrate specificities and clarify that SMc01003 is a diacylglycerol lipase.	2016 11	Sahonero-Canavesi, Diana X; Sahonero-Canavesi, DX; Sahonero-Canavesi; Zavaleta-Pastor, Maritza; Zavaleta-Pastor, M; Zavaleta-Pastor; Martínez-Aguilar, Lourdes; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	J Vis Exp
27492201	Microbiota from Rhabditis regina may alter nematode entomopathogenicity.	Here we report the presence of the entomopathogenic nematode Rhabditis (Rhabditoides) regina affecting white grubs (Phyllophaga sp. and Anomala sp.) in Mexico and R. regina-associated bacteria. Bioassays were performed to test the entomopathogenic capacity of dauer and L2 and L3 (combined) larval stages. Furthermore, we determined the diversity of bacteria from laboratory nematodes cultivated for 2 years (dauer and L2-L3 larvae) and from field nematodes (dauer and L2-L3 larvae) in addition to the virulence in Galleria mellonella larvae of some bacterial species from both laboratory and field nematodes. Dauer and non-dauer larvae of R. regina killed G. mellonella. Bacteria such as Serratia sp. (isolated from field nematodes) and Klebsiella sp. (isolated from larvae of laboratory and field nematodes) may explain R. regina entomopathogenic capabilities. Different bacteria were found in nematodes after subculturing in the laboratory suggesting that R. regina may acquire bacteria in different environments. However, there were some consistently found bacteria from laboratory and field nematodes such as Pseudochrobactrum sp., Comamonas sp., Alcaligenes sp., Klebsiella sp., Acinetobacter sp., and Leucobacter sp. that may constitute the nematode microbiome. Results showed that some bacteria contributing to entomopathogenicity may be lost in the laboratory representing a disadvantage when nematodes are cultivated to be used for biological control.	2016 Nov	Jiménez-Cortés, Jesús Guillermo; Jiménez-Cortés, JG; Jiménez-Cortés; Canales-Lazcano, Jorge; Canales-Lazcano, J; Canales-Lazcano; Lara-Reyes, Nancy; Lara-Reyes, N; Lara-Reyes; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Contreras-Garduño, Jorge; Contreras-Garduño, J; Contreras-Garduño	Parasitol Res
27573474	Production of d-lactate from sugarcane bagasse and corn stover hydrolysates using metabolic engineered Escherichia coli strains.	In this study, the lactogenic Escherichia coli strain JU15 was used and modified to produce d-lactate (d-LA) from plant hydrolysates with a minimal nutrient addition in pH controlled fermenters. Results showed that strain JU15 produces d-LA with high yield and productivity in laboratory simulated hydrolysate media and actual sugar cane bagasse hemicellulosic hydrolysate. Strain JU15 showed sequential carbon source utilization and acetic acid production. The l-lactic and acetic acid production pathways were deleted in JU15, resulting strain AV03 (JU15 ΔpoxB, ΔackA-pta, ΔmgsA), which showed simultaneous consumption of glucose and xylose and no acetic acid production in the simulated hydrolysate. The d-LA yield from hydrolysate sugars was close to 0.95gD-LA/gsugars in all cases. Our results show that d-LA can be produced from plant hydrolysates in simple batch fermentation processes with a high productivity using engineered E. coli strains at fermenter scales from 0.2 up to 10L. 	2016 Nov	Utrilla, José; Utrilla, J; Utrilla; Vargas-Tah, Alejandra; Vargas-Tah, A; Vargas-Tah; Trujillo-Martínez, Berenice; Trujillo-Martínez, B; Trujillo-Martínez; Gosset, Guillermo; Gosset, G; Gosset; Martinez, Alfredo; Martinez, A; Martinez	Bioresour Technol
27499008	Rhizobium favelukesii sp. nov., isolated from the root nodules of alfalfa (Medicago sativa L).	Strains LPU83T and Or191 of the genus Rhizobium were isolated from the root nodules of alfalfa, grown in acid soils from Argentina and the USA. These two strains, which shared the same plasmid pattern, lipopolysaccharide profile, insertion-sequence fingerprint, 16S rRNA gene sequence and PCR-fingerprinting pattern, were different from reference strains representing species of the genus Rhizobium with validly published names. On the basis of previously reported data and from new DNA-DNA hybridization results, phenotypic characterization and phylogenetic analyses, strains LPU83T and Or191 can be considered to be representatives of a novel species of the genus Rhizobium, for which the name Rhizobium favelukesii sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain of this species is LPU83T (=CECT 9014T=LMG 29160T), for which an improved draft-genome sequence is available.	2016 Nov	Torres Tejerizo, Gonzalo; Torres Tejerizo, G; Torres Tejerizo; Rogel, Marco Antonio; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Althabegoiti, María Julia; Althabegoiti, MJ; Althabegoiti; Nilsson, Juliet Fernanda; Nilsson, JF; Nilsson; Niehaus, Karsten; Niehaus, K; Niehaus; Schlüter, Andreas; Schlüter, A; Schlüter; Pühler, Alfred; Pühler, A; Pühler; Del Papa, María Florencia; Del Papa, MF; Del Papa; Lagares, Antonio; Lagares, A; Lagares; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Pistorio, Mariano; Pistorio, M; Pistorio	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
27226009	Transcriptomic analysis of the process of biofilm formation in Rhizobium etli CFN42.	Organisms belonging to the genus Rhizobium colonize leguminous plant roots and establish a mutually beneficial symbiosis. Biofilms are structured ecosystems in which microbes are embedded in a matrix of extracellular polymeric substances, and their development is a multistep process. The biofilm formation processes of R. etli CFN42 were analyzed at an early (24-h incubation) and mature stage (72 h), comparing cells in the biofilm with cells remaining in the planktonic stage. A genome-wide microarray analysis identified 498 differentially regulated genes, implying that expression of ~8.3 % of the total R. etli gene content was altered during biofilm formation. In biofilms-attached cells, genes encoding proteins with diverse functions were overexpressed including genes involved in membrane synthesis, transport and chemotaxis, repression of flagellin synthesis, as well as surface components (particularly exopolysaccharides and lipopolysaccharides), in combination with the presence of activators or stimulators of N-acyl-homoserine lactone synthesis This suggests that R. etli is able to sense surrounding environmental conditions and accordingly regulate the transition from planktonic and biofilm growth. In contrast, planktonic cells differentially expressed genes associated with transport, motility (flagellar and twitching) and inhibition of exopolysaccharide synthesis. To our knowledge, this is the first report of nodulation and nitrogen assimilation-related genes being involved in biofilm formation in R. etli. These results contribute to the understanding of the physiological changes involved in biofilm formation by bacteria. 	2016 Nov	Reyes-Pérez, Agustín; Reyes-Pérez, A; Reyes-Pérez; Vargas, María Del Carmen; Vargas, Mdel C; Vargas; Hernández, Magdalena; Hernández, M; Hernández; Aguirre-von-Wobeser, Eneas; Aguirre-von-Wobeser, E; Aguirre-von-Wobeser; Pérez-Rueda, Ernesto; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda; Encarnacion, Sergio; Encarnacion, S; Encarnacion	Arch Microbiol
27543297	Genomes of Candidatus Wolbachia bourtzisii wDacA and Candidatus Wolbachia pipientis wDacB from the Cochineal Insect Dactylopius coccus (Hemiptera: Dactylopiidae).	Dactylopius species, known as cochineal insects, are the source of the carminic acid dye used worldwide. The presence of two Wolbachia strains in Dactylopius coccus from Mexico was revealed by PCR amplification of wsp and sequencing of 16S rRNA genes. A metagenome analysis recovered the genome sequences of Candidatus Wolbachia bourtzisii wDacA (supergroup A) and Candidatus Wolbachia pipientis wDacB (supergroup B). Genome read coverage, as well as 16S rRNA clone sequencing, revealed that wDacB was more abundant than wDacA. The strains shared similar predicted metabolic capabilities that are common to Wolbachia, including riboflavin, ubiquinone, and heme biosynthesis, but lacked other vitamin and cofactor biosynthesis as well as glycolysis, the oxidative pentose phosphate pathway, and sugar uptake systems. A complete tricarboxylic acid cycle and gluconeogenesis were predicted as well as limited amino acid biosynthesis. Uptake and catabolism of proline were evidenced in Dactylopius Wolbachia strains. Both strains possessed WO-like phage regions and type I and type IV secretion systems. Several efflux systems found suggested the existence of metal toxicity within their host. Besides already described putative virulence factors like ankyrin domain proteins, VlrC homologs, and patatin-like proteins, putative novel virulence factors related to those found in intracellular pathogens like Legionella and Mycobacterium are highlighted for the first time in Wolbachia Candidate genes identified in other Wolbachia that are likely involved in cytoplasmic incompatibility were found in wDacB but not in wDacA.	2016 10	Ramírez-Puebla, Shamayim T; Ramírez-Puebla, ST; Ramírez-Puebla; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Vera-Ponce de León, Arturo; Vera-Ponce de León, A; Vera-Ponce de León; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Sanchez-Flores, Alejandro; Sanchez-Flores, A; Sanchez-Flores; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	G3 (Bethesda)
27724938	Infection with Plasmodium berghei ookinetes alters protein expression in the brain of Anopheles albimanus mosquitoes.	The behaviour of Anopheles spp. mosquitoes, vectors for Plasmodium parasites, plays a crucial role in the propagation of malaria to humans. Consequently, it is important to understand how the behaviour of these mosquitoes is influenced by the interaction between the brain and immunological status. The nervous system is intimately linked to the immune and endocrine systems. There is evidence that the malaria parasite alters the function of these systems upon infecting the mosquito. Although there is a complex molecular interplay between the Plasmodium parasite and Anopheles mosquito, little is known about the neuronal alteration triggered by the parasite invasion. The aim of this study was to analyse the modification of the proteomic profile in the An. albimanus brain during the early phase of the Plasmodium berghei invasion.	2016 10	Alvarado-Delgado, Alejandro; Alvarado-Delgado, A; Alvarado-Delgado; Perales Ortiz, Guillermo; Perales Ortiz, G; Perales Ortiz; Tello-López, Ángel T; Tello-López, ÁT; Tello-López; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Conde, Renaud; Conde, R; Conde; Martínez-Batallar, Ángel G; Martínez-Batallar, ÁG; Martínez-Batallar; Moran-Francia, Ken; Moran-Francia, K; Moran-Francia; Lanz-Mendoza, Humberto; Lanz-Mendoza, H; Lanz-Mendoza	Parasit Vectors
27633769	Dynamics of genome change among Legionella species.	Legionella species inhabit freshwater and soil ecosystems where they parasitize protozoa. L. pneumonphila (LP) serogroup-1 (Lp1) is the major cause of Legionnaires' Disease (LD), a life-threatening pulmonary infection that can spread systemically. The increased global frequency of LD caused by Lp and non-Lp species underscores the need to expand our knowledge of evolutionary forces underlying disease pathogenesis. Whole genome analyses of 43 strains, including all known Lp serogroups 1-17 and 17 emergent LD-causing Legionella species (of which 33 were sequenced in this study) in addition to 10 publicly available genomes, resolved the strains into four phylogenetic clades along host virulence demarcations. Clade-specific genes were distinct for genetic exchange and signal-transduction, indicating adaptation to specific cellular and/or environmental niches. CRISPR spacer comparisons hinted at larger pools of accessory DNA sequences in Lp than predicted by the pan-genome analyses. While recombination within Lp was frequent and has been reported previously, population structure analysis identified surprisingly few DNA admixture events between species. In summary, diverse Legionella LD-causing species share a conserved core-genome, are genetically isolated from each other, and selectively acquire genes with potential for enhanced virulence.	2016 09	Joseph, Sandeep J; Joseph, SJ; Joseph; Cox, Daniel; Cox, D; Cox; Wolff, Bernard; Wolff, B; Wolff; Morrison, Shatavia S; Morrison, SS; Morrison; Kozak-Muiznieks, Natalia A; Kozak-Muiznieks, NA; Kozak-Muiznieks; Frace, Michael; Frace, M; Frace; Didelot, Xavier; Didelot, X; Didelot; Castillo-Ramirez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramirez, S; Castillo-Ramirez; Winchell, Jonas; Winchell, J; Winchell; Read, Timothy D; Read, TD; Read; Dean, Deborah; Dean, D; Dean	Sci Rep
27632983	Recurrent evolution of host and vector association in bacteria of the Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato species complex.	The Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato (s.l.) species complex consists of tick-transmitted bacteria and currently comprises approximately 20 named and proposed genospecies some of which are known to cause Lyme Borreliosis. Species have been defined via genetic distances and ecological niches they occupy. Understanding the evolutionary relationship of species of the complex is fundamental to explaining patterns of speciation. This in turn forms a crucial basis to frame testable hypotheses concerning the underlying processes including host and vector adaptations.	2016 09	Becker, Noémie S; Becker, NS; Becker; Margos, Gabriele; Margos, G; Margos; Blum, Helmut; Blum, H; Blum; Krebs, Stefan; Krebs, S; Krebs; Graf, Alexander; Graf, A; Graf; Lane, Robert S; Lane, RS; Lane; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Sing, Andreas; Sing, A; Sing; Fingerle, Volker; Fingerle, V; Fingerle	BMC Genomics
27504778	Sharing and community curation of mass spectrometry data with Global Natural Products Social Molecular Networking.	The potential of the diverse chemistries present in natural products (NP) for biotechnology and medicine remains untapped because NP databases are not searchable with raw data and the NP community has no way to share data other than in published papers. Although mass spectrometry (MS) techniques are well-suited to high-throughput characterization of NP, there is a pressing need for an infrastructure to enable sharing and curation of data. We present Global Natural Products Social Molecular Networking (GNPS; http://gnps.ucsd.edu), an open-access knowledge base for community-wide organization and sharing of raw, processed or identified tandem mass (MS/MS) spectrometry data. In GNPS, crowdsourced curation of freely available community-wide reference MS libraries will underpin improved annotations. Data-driven social-networking should facilitate identification of spectra and foster collaborations. We also introduce the concept of 'living data' through continuous reanalysis of deposited data.	2016 08	Wang, Mingxun; Wang, M; Wang; Carver, Jeremy J; Carver, JJ; Carver; Phelan, Vanessa V; Phelan, VV; Phelan; Sanchez, Laura M; Sanchez, LM; Sanchez; Garg, Neha; Garg, N; Garg; Peng, Yao; Peng, Y; Peng; Nguyen, Don Duy; Nguyen, DD; Nguyen; Watrous, Jeramie; Watrous, J; Watrous; Kapono, Clifford A; Kapono, CA; Kapono; Luzzatto-Knaan, Tal; Luzzatto-Knaan, T; Luzzatto-Knaan; Porto, Carla; Porto, C; Porto; Bouslimani, Amina; Bouslimani, A; Bouslimani; Melnik, Alexey V; Melnik, AV; Melnik; Meehan, Michael J; Meehan, MJ; Meehan; Liu, Wei-Ting; Liu, WT; Liu; Crüsemann, Max; Crüsemann, M; Crüsemann; Boudreau, Paul D; Boudreau, PD; Boudreau; Esquenazi, Eduardo; Esquenazi, E; Esquenazi; Sandoval-Calderón, Mario; Sandoval-Calderón, M; Sandoval-Calderón; Kersten, Roland D; Kersten, RD; Kersten; Pace, Laura A; Pace, LA; Pace; Quinn, Robert A; Quinn, RA; Quinn; Duncan, Katherine R; Duncan, KR; Duncan; Hsu, Cheng-Chih; Hsu, CC; Hsu; Floros, Dimitrios J; Floros, DJ; Floros; Gavilan, Ronnie G; Gavilan, RG; Gavilan; Kleigrewe, Karin; Kleigrewe, K; Kleigrewe; Northen, Trent; Northen, T; Northen; Dutton, Rachel J; Dutton, RJ; Dutton; Parrot, Delphine; Parrot, D; Parrot; Carlson, Erin E; Carlson, EE; Carlson; Aigle, Bertrand; Aigle, B; Aigle; Michelsen, Charlotte F; Michelsen, CF; Michelsen; Jelsbak, Lars; Jelsbak, L; Jelsbak; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Pevzner, Pavel; Pevzner, P; Pevzner; Edlund, Anna; Edlund, A; Edlund; McLean, Jeffrey; McLean, J; McLean; Piel, Jörn; Piel, J; Piel; Murphy, Brian T; Murphy, BT; Murphy; Gerwick, Lena; Gerwick, L; Gerwick; Liaw, Chih-Chuang; Liaw, CC; Liaw; Yang, Yu-Liang; Yang, YL; Yang; Humpf, Hans-Ulrich; Humpf, HU; Humpf; Maansson, Maria; Maansson, M; Maansson; Keyzers, Robert A; Keyzers, RA; Keyzers; Sims, Amy C; Sims, AC; Sims; Johnson, Andrew R; Johnson, AR; Johnson; Sidebottom, Ashley M; Sidebottom, AM; Sidebottom; Sedio, Brian E; Sedio, BE; Sedio; Klitgaard, Andreas; Klitgaard, A; Klitgaard; Larson, Charles B; Larson, CB; Larson; P, Cristopher A Boya; P, CAB; P; Torres-Mendoza, Daniel; Torres-Mendoza, D; Torres-Mendoza; Gonzalez, David J; Gonzalez, DJ; Gonzalez; Silva, Denise B; Silva, DB; Silva; Marques, Lucas M; Marques, LM; Marques; Demarque, Daniel P; Demarque, DP; Demarque; Pociute, Egle; Pociute, E; Pociute; O'Neill, Ellis C; O'Neill, EC; O'Neill; Briand, Enora; Briand, E; Briand; Helfrich, Eric J N; Helfrich, EJN; Helfrich; Granatosky, Eve A; Granatosky, EA; Granatosky; Glukhov, Evgenia; Glukhov, E; Glukhov; Ryffel, Florian; Ryffel, F; Ryffel; Houson, Hailey; Houson, H; Houson; Mohimani, Hosein; Mohimani, H; Mohimani; Kharbush, Jenan J; Kharbush, JJ; Kharbush; Zeng, Yi; Zeng, Y; Zeng; Vorholt, Julia A; Vorholt, JA; Vorholt; Kurita, Kenji L; Kurita, KL; Kurita; Charusanti, Pep; Charusanti, P; Charusanti; McPhail, Kerry L; McPhail, KL; McPhail; Nielsen, Kristian Fog; Nielsen, KF; Nielsen; Vuong, Lisa; Vuong, L; Vuong; Elfeki, Maryam; Elfeki, M; Elfeki; Traxler, Matthew F; Traxler, MF; Traxler; Engene, Niclas; Engene, N; Engene; Koyama, Nobuhiro; Koyama, N; Koyama; Vining, Oliver B; Vining, OB; Vining; Baric, Ralph; Baric, R; Baric; Silva, Ricardo R; Silva, RR; Silva; Mascuch, Samantha J; Mascuch, SJ; Mascuch; Tomasi, Sophie; Tomasi, S; Tomasi; Jenkins, Stefan; Jenkins, S; Jenkins; Macherla, Venkat; Macherla, V; Macherla; Hoffman, Thomas; Hoffman, T; Hoffman; Agarwal, Vinayak; Agarwal, V; Agarwal; Williams, Philip G; Williams, PG; Williams; Dai, Jingqui; Dai, J; Dai; Neupane, Ram; Neupane, R; Neupane; Gurr, Joshua; Gurr, J; Gurr; Rodríguez, Andrés M C; Rodríguez, AMC; Rodríguez; Lamsa, Anne; Lamsa, A; Lamsa; Zhang, Chen; Zhang, C; Zhang; Dorrestein, Kathleen; Dorrestein, K; Dorrestein; Duggan, Brendan M; Duggan, BM; Duggan; Almaliti, Jehad; Almaliti, J; Almaliti; Allard, Pierre-Marie; Allard, PM; Allard; Phapale, Prasad; Phapale, P; Phapale; Nothias, Louis-Felix; Nothias, LF; Nothias; Alexandrov, Theodore; Alexandrov, T; Alexandrov; Litaudon, Marc; Litaudon, M; Litaudon; Wolfender, Jean-Luc; Wolfender, JL; Wolfender; Kyle, Jennifer E; Kyle, JE; Kyle; Metz, Thomas O; Metz, TO; Metz; Peryea, Tyler; Peryea, T; Peryea; Nguyen, Dac-Trung; Nguyen, DT; Nguyen; VanLeer, Danielle; VanLeer, D; VanLeer; Shinn, Paul; Shinn, P; Shinn; Jadhav, Ajit; Jadhav, A; Jadhav; Müller, Rolf; Müller, R; Müller; Waters, Katrina M; Waters, KM; Waters; Shi, Wenyuan; Shi, W; Shi; Liu, Xueting; Liu, X; Liu; Zhang, Lixin; Zhang, L; Zhang; Knight, Rob; Knight, R; Knight; Jensen, Paul R; Jensen, PR; Jensen; Palsson, Bernhard O; Palsson, BO; Palsson; Pogliano, Kit; Pogliano, K; Pogliano; Linington, Roger G; Linington, RG; Linington; Gutiérrez, Marcelino; Gutiérrez, M; Gutiérrez; Lopes, Norberto P; Lopes, NP; Lopes; Gerwick, William H; Gerwick, WH; Gerwick; Moore, Bradley S; Moore, BS; Moore; Dorrestein, Pieter C; Dorrestein, PC; Dorrestein; Bandeira, Nuno; Bandeira, N; Bandeira	Nat Biotechnol
27601031	Genomic studies of nitrogen-fixing rhizobial strains from Phaseolus vulgaris seeds and nodules.	Rhizobia are soil bacteria that establish symbiotic relationships with legumes and fix nitrogen in root nodules. We recently reported that several nitrogen-fixing rhizobial strains, belonging to Rhizobium phaseoli, R. trifolii, R. grahamii and Sinorhizobium americanum, were able to colonize Phaseolus vulgaris (common bean) seeds. To gain further insight into the traits that support this ability, we analyzed the genomic sequences and proteomes of R. phaseoli (CCGM1) and S. americanum (CCGM7) strains from seeds and compared them with those of the closely related strains CIAT652 and CFNEI73, respectively, isolated only from nodules.	2016 09	Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta; Aguilar, Alejandro; Aguilar, A; Aguilar; Díaz, Rafael; Díaz, R; Díaz; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Martínez-Batallar, Gabriel; Martínez-Batallar, G; Martínez-Batallar; Salazar, Emmanuel; Salazar, E; Salazar; Vargas-Lagunas, Carmen; Vargas-Lagunas, C; Vargas-Lagunas; Martínez, Esperanza; Martínez, E; Martínez; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	BMC Genomics
26395550	Diversity patterns of Rhizobiaceae communities inhabiting soils, root surfaces and nodules reveal a strong selection of rhizobial partners by legumes.	Current knowledge about rhizobial diversity patterns in non-nodule habitats is scarce, limiting our understanding of basic aspects of rhizobial ecology like competitiveness for nodule occupancy and host effects on community structure. We used a combination of cultivation-dependent and independent approaches to analyse alpha and beta diversity patterns of Rhizobiaceae communities from a conserved seasonally dry tropical forest site in central Mexico and two nearby agricultural fields. Lineage-specific recA amplicon libraries were generated from soil DNA and their sequences compared with those from root surface and nodule isolates recovered in trapping experiments from two native Acacia species and two Phaseolus vulgaris cultivars. Rarefaction analyses revealed that Rhizobiaceae diversity in soils is larger than on root surfaces, and smallest in nodules. A 'rare biosphere'-like distribution of species was found in the three habitats. Multivariate statistical analyses demonstrated that the plant genus exerted a stronger influence than the land-usage regime on the diversity of rhizobia associated with hosts. Rhizobium etli was the dominant Rhizobiaceae found in the soil libraries. It dominated nodulation of Acacia spp. and predominately harboured symbiovar mimosae-like nodC genes. A novel Rhizobium lineage (Rsp1) dominated bean nodulation. Specialist and generalist genotypes for host nodulation were detected in both species.	2016 09	Miranda-Sánchez, Fabiola; Miranda-Sánchez, F; Miranda-Sánchez; Rivera, Javier; Rivera, J; Rivera; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa	Environ Microbiol
27589961	Overview of the interactive task in BioCreative V.	Fully automated text mining (TM) systems promote efficient literature searching, retrieval, and review but are not sufficient to produce ready-to-consume curated documents. These systems are not meant to replace biocurators, but instead to assist them in one or more literature curation steps. To do so, the user interface is an important aspect that needs to be considered for tool adoption. The BioCreative Interactive task (IAT) is a track designed for exploring user-system interactions, promoting development of useful TM tools, and providing a communication channel between the biocuration and the TM communities. In BioCreative V, the IAT track followed a format similar to previous interactive tracks, where the utility and usability of TM tools, as well as the generation of use cases, have been the focal points. The proposed curation tasks are user-centric and formally evaluated by biocurators. In BioCreative V IAT, seven TM systems and 43 biocurators participated. Two levels of user participation were offered to broaden curator involvement and obtain more feedback on usability aspects. The full level participation involved training on the system, curation of a set of documents with and without TM assistance, tracking of time-on-task, and completion of a user survey. The partial level participation was designed to focus on usability aspects of the interface and not the performance per se In this case, biocurators navigated the system by performing pre-designed tasks and then were asked whether they were able to achieve the task and the level of difficulty in completing the task. In this manuscript, we describe the development of the interactive task, from planning to execution and discuss major findings for the systems tested.Database URL: http://www.biocreative.org.	2016	Wang, Qinghua; Wang, Q; Wang; S Abdul, Shabbir; S Abdul, S; S Abdul; Almeida, Lara; Almeida, L; Almeida; Ananiadou, Sophia; Ananiadou, S; Ananiadou; Balderas-Martínez, Yalbi I; Balderas-Martínez, YI; Balderas-Martínez; Batista-Navarro, Riza; Batista-Navarro, R; Batista-Navarro; Campos, David; Campos, D; Campos; Chilton, Lucy; Chilton, L; Chilton; Chou, Hui-Jou; Chou, HJ; Chou; Contreras, Gabriela; Contreras, G; Contreras; Cooper, Laurel; Cooper, L; Cooper; Dai, Hong-Jie; Dai, HJ; Dai; Ferrell, Barbra; Ferrell, B; Ferrell; Fluck, Juliane; Fluck, J; Fluck; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; George, Nancy; George, N; George; Gkoutos, Georgios; Gkoutos, G; Gkoutos; Irin, Afroza K; Irin, AK; Irin; Jensen, Lars J; Jensen, LJ; Jensen; Jimenez, Silvia; Jimenez, S; Jimenez; Jue, Toni R; Jue, TR; Jue; Keseler, Ingrid; Keseler, I; Keseler; Madan, Sumit; Madan, S; Madan; Matos, Sérgio; Matos, S; Matos; McQuilton, Peter; McQuilton, P; McQuilton; Milacic, Marija; Milacic, M; Milacic; Mort, Matthew; Mort, M; Mort; Natarajan, Jeyakumar; Natarajan, J; Natarajan; Pafilis, Evangelos; Pafilis, E; Pafilis; Pereira, Emiliano; Pereira, E; Pereira; Rao, Shruti; Rao, S; Rao; Rinaldi, Fabio; Rinaldi, F; Rinaldi; Rothfels, Karen; Rothfels, K; Rothfels; Salgado, David; Salgado, D; Salgado; Silva, Raquel M; Silva, RM; Silva; Singh, Onkar; Singh, O; Singh; Stefancsik, Raymund; Stefancsik, R; Stefancsik; Su, Chu-Hsien; Su, CH; Su; Subramani, Suresh; Subramani, S; Subramani; Tadepally, Hamsa D; Tadepally, HD; Tadepally; Tsaprouni, Loukia; Tsaprouni, L; Tsaprouni; Vasilevsky, Nicole; Vasilevsky, N; Vasilevsky; Wang, Xiaodong; Wang, X; Wang; Chatr-Aryamontri, Andrew; Chatr-Aryamontri, A; Chatr-Aryamontri; Laulederkind, Stanley J F; Laulederkind, SJ; Laulederkind; Matis-Mitchell, Sherri; Matis-Mitchell, S; Matis-Mitchell; McEntyre, Johanna; McEntyre, J; McEntyre; Orchard, Sandra; Orchard, S; Orchard; Pundir, Sangya; Pundir, S; Pundir; Rodriguez-Esteban, Raul; Rodriguez-Esteban, R; Rodriguez-Esteban; Van Auken, Kimberly; Van Auken, K; Van Auken; Lu, Zhiyong; Lu, Z; Lu; Schaeffer, Mary; Schaeffer, M; Schaeffer; Wu, Cathy H; Wu, CH; Wu; Hirschman, Lynette; Hirschman, L; Hirschman; Arighi, Cecilia N; Arighi, CN; Arighi	Database (Oxford)
27312778	Population genomics of the symbiotic plasmids of sympatric nitrogen-fixing Rhizobium species associated with Phaseolus vulgaris.	Cultivated common beans are the primary protein source for millions of people around the world who subsist on low-input agriculture, enabled by the symbiotic N2 -fixation these legumes perform in association with rhizobia. Within a single agricultural plot, multiple Rhizobium species can nodulate bean roots, but it is unclear how genetically isolated these species remain in sympatry. To better understand this issue, we sequenced and compared the genomes of 33 strains isolated from the rhizosphere and root nodules of a particular bean variety grown in the same agricultural plot. We found that the Rhizobium species we observed coexist with low genetic recombination across their core genomes. Accessory plasmids thought to be necessary for the saprophytic lifestyle in soil show similar levels of genetic isolation, but with higher rates of recombination than the chromosomes. However, the symbiotic plasmids are extremely similar, with high rates of recombination and do not appear to have co-evolved with the chromosome or accessory plasmids. Therefore, while Rhizobium species are genetically isolated units within the microbial community, a common symbiotic plasmid allows all Rhizobium species to engage in symbiosis with the same host in a single agricultural plot.	2016 09	Pérez Carrascal, Olga M; Pérez Carrascal, OM; Pérez Carrascal; VanInsberghe, David; VanInsberghe, D; VanInsberghe; Juárez, Soledad; Juárez, S; Juárez; Polz, Martin F; Polz, MF; Polz; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; González, Víctor; González, V; González	Environ Microbiol
27473689	Alpha proteobacterial ancestry of the [Fe-Fe]-hydrogenases in anaerobic eukaryotes.	Eukaryogenesis, a major transition in evolution of life, originated from the symbiogenic fusion of an archaea with a metabolically versatile bacterium. By general consensus, the latter organism belonged to α proteobacteria, subsequently evolving into the mitochondrial organelle of our cells. The consensus is based upon genetic and metabolic similarities between mitochondria and aerobic α proteobacteria but fails to explain the origin of several enzymes found in the mitochondria-derived organelles of anaerobic eukaryotes such as Trichomonas and Entamoeba. These enzymes are thought to derive from bacterial lineages other than α proteobacteria, e.g., Clostridium - an obligate anaerobe. [FeFe]-hydrogenase constitues the characteristic enzyme of this anaerobic metabolism and is present in different types also in Entamoeba and other anaerobic eukaryotes. Here we show that α proteobacteria derived from metagenomic studies possess both the cytosolic and organellar type of [FeFe]-hydrogenase, as well as all the proteins required for hydrogenase maturation. These organisms are related to cultivated members of the Rhodospirillales order previously suggested to be close relatives of mitochondrial ancestors. For the first time, our evidence supports an α proteobacterial ancestry for both the anaerobic and the aerobic metabolism of eukaryotes.	2016 07	Degli Esposti, Mauro; Degli Esposti, M; Degli Esposti; Cortez, Diego; Cortez, D; Cortez; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Rasmussen, Simon; Rasmussen, S; Rasmussen; Nielsen, Henrik Bjørn; Nielsen, HB; Nielsen; Martinez Romero, Esperanza; Martinez Romero, E; Martinez Romero	Biol Direct
27468278	Region 4 of Rhizobium etli Primary Sigma Factor (SigA) Confers Transcriptional Laxity in Escherichia coli.	Sigma factors are RNA polymerase subunits engaged in promoter recognition and DNA strand separation during transcription initiation in bacteria. Primary sigma factors are responsible for the expression of housekeeping genes and are essential for survival. RpoD, the primary sigma factor of Escherichia coli, a γ-proteobacteria, recognizes consensus promoter sequences highly similar to those of some α-proteobacteria species. Despite this resemblance, RpoD is unable to sustain transcription from most of the α-proteobacterial promoters tested so far. In contrast, we have found that SigA, the primary sigma factor of Rhizobium etli, an α-proteobacteria, is able to transcribe E. coli promoters, although it exhibits only 48% identity (98% coverage) to RpoD. We have called this the transcriptional laxity phenomenon. Here, we show that SigA partially complements the thermo-sensitive deficiency of RpoD285 from E. coli strain UQ285 and that the SigA region σ4 is responsible for this phenotype. Sixteen out of 74 residues (21.6%) within region σ4 are variable between RpoD and SigA. Mutating these residues significantly improves SigA ability to complement E. coli UQ285. Only six of these residues fall into positions already known to interact with promoter DNA and to comprise a helix-turn-helix motif. The remaining variable positions are located on previously unexplored sites inside region σ4, specifically into the first two α-helices of the region. Neither of the variable positions confined to these helices seem to interact directly with promoter sequence; instead, we adduce that these residues participate allosterically by contributing to correct region folding and/or positioning of the HTH motif. We propose that transcriptional laxity is a mechanism for ensuring transcription in spite of naturally occurring mutations from endogenous promoters and/or horizontally transferred DNA sequences, allowing survival and fast environmental adaptation of α-proteobacteria. 	2016	Santillán, Orlando; Santillán, O; Santillán; Ramírez-Romero, Miguel A; Ramírez-Romero, MA; Ramírez-Romero; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Checa, Alberto; Checa, A; Checa; Encarnación, Sergio M; Encarnación, SM; Encarnación; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila	Front Microbiol
27389261	Draft Genome Sequence of a Hypermucoviscous Extended-Spectrum-β-Lactamase-Producing Klebsiella quasipneumoniae subsp. similipneumoniae Clinical Isolate.	A clinical isolate of extended-spectrum-β-lactamase-producing Klebsiella quasipneumoniae subsp. similipneumoniae 06-219 with hypermucoviscosity phenotypes obtained from a urine culture of an adult patient was used for whole-genome sequencing. Here, we report the draft genome sequences of this strain, consisting of 53 contigs with an ~5.6-Mb genome size and an average G+C content of 57.36%. The annotation revealed 6,622 coding DNA sequences and 77 tRNA genes. 	2016 Jul	Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos; Silva-Sánchez, J; Silva-Sánchez, J; Silva-Sánchez; Catalán-Nájera, J; Catalán-Nájera, J; Catalán-Nájera; Barrios, H; Barrios, H; Barrios; Rodríguez-Medina, N; Rodríguez-Medina, N; Rodríguez-Medina; Garza-González, E; Garza-González, E; Garza-González; Cevallos, M A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Lozano, L; Lozano, L; Lozano	Genome Announc
27289097	Late Mitochondrial Acquisition, Really?	This article provides a timely critique of a recent Nature paper by Pittis and Gabaldón that has suggested a late origin of mitochondria in eukaryote evolution. It shows that the inferred ancestry of many mitochondrial proteins has been incorrectly assigned by Pittis and Gabaldón to bacteria other than the aerobic proteobacteria from which the ancestor of mitochondria originates, thereby questioning the validity of their suggestion that mitochondrial acquisition may be a late event in eukaryote evolution. The analysis and approach presented here may guide future studies to resolve the true ancestry of mitochondria.	2016 07	Degli Esposti, Mauro; Degli Esposti, M; Degli Esposti	Genome Biol Evol
26732875	Proteomic and morphometric study of the in vitro interaction between Oncidium sphacelatum Lindl. (Orchidaceae) and Thanatephorus sp. RG26 (Ceratobasidiaceae).	Orchidaceae establish symbiotic relationships with fungi in the Rhizoctonia group, resulting in interactions beneficial to both organisms or in cell destruction in one of them (pathogenicity). Previous studies have focused mostly on terrestrial species with a few, preliminary studies, on epiphytes. To further our understanding of the molecular mechanisms involved in these symbioses, we evaluated the interaction between Oncidium sphacelatum Lindl. and the mycorrhizal fungus Thanatephorus sp. strain RG26 (isolated from a different orchid species) in vitro using morphometric and proteomic analyses. Evidence from the morphometric and microscopic analysis showed that the fungus promoted linear growth and differentiation of orchid protocorms during 98 days interaction. On day 63, protocorm development was evident, so we analyzed the physiological response of both organisms at that moment. Proteome results suggest that orchid development stimulated by the fungus apparently involves cell cycle proteins, purine recycling, ribosome biogenesis, energy metabolism, and secretion that were up-regulated in the orchid; whereas in the fungus, a high expression of proteins implicated in stress response, protein-protein interaction, and saccharides and protein biosynthesis were found in the symbiotic interaction. This is the first work reporting proteins differentially expressed in the epiphytic orchid-fungus interaction and will contribute to the search for molecular markers that will facilitate the study of this symbiosis in both wild orchids and those in danger of extinction. 	2016 Jul	López-Chávez, Mariana Yadira; López-Chávez, MY; López-Chávez; Guillén-Navarro, Karina; Guillén-Navarro, K; Guillén-Navarro; Bertolini, Vincenzo; Bertolini, V; Bertolini; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Hernández-Ortiz, Magdalena; Hernández-Ortiz, M; Hernández-Ortiz; Sánchez-Moreno, Irene; Sánchez-Moreno, I; Sánchez-Moreno; Damon, Anne; Damon, A; Damon	Mycorrhiza
27357704	Site-specific bacterial chromosome engineering mediated by IntA integrase from Rhizobium etli.	The bacterial chromosome may be used to stably maintain foreign DNA in the mega-base range. Integration into the chromosome circumvents issues such as plasmid replication, stability, incompatibility, and copy number variance. The site-specific integrase IntA from Rhizobium etli CFN42 catalyzes a direct recombination between two specific DNA sites: attA and attD (23 bp). This recombination is stable. The aim of this work was to develop a R. etli derivative that may be used as recipient for the integration of foreign DNA in the chromosome, adapting the IntA catalyzed site-specific recombination system.	2016 06	Hernández-Tamayo, Rogelio; Hernández-Tamayo, R; Hernández-Tamayo; Torres-Tejerizo, Gonzalo; Torres-Tejerizo, G; Torres-Tejerizo; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero	BMC Microbiol
27446001	Fungal Community Associated with Dactylopius (Hemiptera: Coccoidea: Dactylopiidae) and Its Role in Uric Acid Metabolism.	We studied fungal species associated with the carmine cochineal Dactylopius coccus and other non-domesticated Dactylopius species using culture-dependent and -independent methods. Thirty seven fungi were isolated in various culture media from insect males and females from different developmental stages and Dactylopius species. 26S rRNA genes and ITS sequences, from cultured fungal isolates revealed different species of Cryptococcus, Rhodotorula, Debaryomyces, Trametes, and Penicillium, which are genera newly associated with Dactylopius. Uric acid (UA) and uricase activity were detected in tissues extracts from different insect developmental stages. However, accumulation of high UA levels and low uricase activities were found only after antifungal treatments, suggesting an important role of fungal species in its metabolism. Additionally, uricolytic fungal isolates were identified and characterized that presumably are involved in nitrogen recycling metabolism. After metagenomic analyses from D. coccus gut and hemolymph DNA and from two published data sets, we confirmed the presence of fungal genes involved in UA catabolism, suggesting that fungi help in the nitrogen recycling process in Dactylopius by uricolysis. All these results show the importance of fungal communities in scale insects such as Dactylopius. 	2016	Vera-Ponce de León, Arturo; Vera-Ponce de León, A; Vera-Ponce de León; Sanchez-Flores, Alejandro; Sanchez-Flores, A; Sanchez-Flores; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Front Microbiol
27335086	The space of enzyme regulation in HeLa cells can be inferred from its intracellular metabolome.	During the transition from a healthy state to a cancerous one, cells alter their metabolism to increase proliferation. The underlying metabolic alterations may be caused by a variety of different regulatory events on the transcriptional or post-transcriptional level whose identification contributes to the rational design of therapeutic targets. We present a mechanistic strategy capable of inferring enzymatic regulation from intracellular metabolome measurements that is independent of the actual mechanism of regulation. Here, enzyme activities are expressed by the space of all feasible kinetic constants (k-cone) such that the alteration between two phenotypes is given by their corresponding kinetic spaces. Deriving an expression for the transformation of the healthy to the cancer k-cone we identified putative regulated enzymes between the HeLa and HaCaT cell lines. We show that only a few enzymatic activities change between those two cell lines and that this regulation does not depend on gene transcription but is instead post-transcriptional. Here, we identify phosphofructokinase as the major driver of proliferation in HeLa cells and suggest an optional regulatory program, associated with oxidative stress, that affects the activity of the pentose phosphate pathway.	2016 06	Diener, Christian; Diener, C; Diener; Muñoz-Gonzalez, Felipe; Muñoz-Gonzalez, F; Muñoz-Gonzalez; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Resendis-Antonio, Osbaldo; Resendis-Antonio, O; Resendis-Antonio	Sci Rep
27106049	A survey of the energy metabolism of nodulating symbionts reveals a new form of respiratory complex I.	A limiting factor in agriculture is the availability of nitrogen in the soil, which may be compensated by biological N2 fixation catalysed by bacteria. Most biological N2 fixation occurs in root nodules of plants that respond to bacterial infection by establishing symbiosis with selected prokaryotes. The plants provide energy metabolites and a microoxic environment to the bacterial symbionts to facilitate their capacity of N2 fixation. Despite enormous advances in the molecular genetics of this symbiosis between plants and nodulating bacteria, we still do not understand fundamental aspects which determine the efficiency of N2 fixation in the nodules, and therefore the capacity to biologically enrich agricultural soils. Here we provide an overview of the central features of the energy metabolism that sustains N2 fixation, with emphasis on the bacterial respiratory chain supplying the electrons and ATP required for the nitrogenase reaction. We discuss common trends and specific variations in the integrated process of respiratory electron transport and N2 fixation. Among such variations we introduce green complex I, an ancient version of NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase that is present in several Rhizobiaceae and may facilitate N2 fixation. 	2016 Jun	Degli Esposti, Mauro; Degli Esposti, M; Degli Esposti; Martinez Romero, Esperanza; Martinez Romero, E; Martinez Romero	FEMS Microbiol Ecol
27010660	Expanding the regulatory network that controls nitrogen fixation in Sinorhizobium meliloti: elucidating the role of the two-component system hFixL-FxkR.	In Sinorhizobium meliloti, nitrogen fixation is regulated in response to oxygen concentration through the FixL-FixJ two-component system (TCS). Besides this conserved TCS, the field isolate SM11 also encodes the hFixL-FxkR TCS, which is responsible for the microoxic response in Rhizobium etli. Through genetic and physiological assays, we evaluated the role of the hFixL-FxkR TCS in S. meliloti SM11. Our results revealed that this regulatory system activates the expression of a fixKf orthologue (fixKa), in response to low oxygen concentration. Null mutations in either hFixL or FxkR promote upregulation of fixK1, a direct target of FixJ. Furthermore, the absence of this TCS translates into higher nitrogen fixation values as well as higher expression of fixN1 in nodules. Individual mutations in each of the fixK-like regulators encoded in the S. meliloti SM11 genome do not completely restrict fixN1 or fixN2 expression, pointing towards redundancy among these regulators. Both copies of fixN are necessary to achieve optimal levels of nitrogen fixation. This work provides evidence that the hFixL-FxkR TCS is activated in response to low oxygen concentration in S. meliloti SM11 and that it negatively regulates the expression of fixK1, fixN1 and nitrogen fixation.	2016 06	Reyes-González, Alma; Reyes-González, A; Reyes-González; Talbi, Chouhra; Talbi, C; Talbi; Rodríguez, Susana; Rodríguez, S; Rodríguez; Rivera, Patricia; Rivera, P; Rivera; Zamorano-Sánchez, David; Zamorano-Sánchez, D; Zamorano-Sánchez; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard	Microbiology (Reading)
27351952	Quantification and Classification of E. coli Proteome Utilization and Unused Protein Costs across Environments.	The costs and benefits of protein expression are balanced through evolution. Expression of un-utilized protein (that have no benefits in the current environment) incurs a quantifiable fitness costs on cellular growth rates; however, the magnitude and variability of un-utilized protein expression in natural settings is unknown, largely due to the challenge in determining environment-specific proteome utilization. We address this challenge using absolute and global proteomics data combined with a recently developed genome-scale model of Escherichia coli that computes the environment-specific cost and utility of the proteome on a per gene basis. We show that nearly half of the proteome mass is unused in certain environments and accounting for the cost of this unused protein expression explains >95% of the variance in growth rates of Escherichia coli across 16 distinct environments. Furthermore, reduction in unused protein expression is shown to be a common mechanism to increase cellular growth rates in adaptive evolution experiments. Classification of the unused protein reveals that the unused protein encodes several nutrient- and stress- preparedness functions, which may convey fitness benefits in varying environments. Thus, unused protein expression is the source of large and pervasive fitness costs that may provide the benefit of hedging against environmental change.	2016 06	O'Brien, Edward J; O'Brien, EJ; O'Brien; Utrilla, Jose; Utrilla, J; Utrilla; Palsson, Bernhard O; Palsson, BO; Palsson	PLoS Comput Biol
27271618	Regulation of Small RNAs and Corresponding Targets in Nod Factor-Induced Phaseolus vulgaris Root Hair Cells.	A genome-wide analysis identified the set of small RNAs (sRNAs) from the agronomical important legume Phaseolus vulgaris (common bean), including novel P. vulgaris-specific microRNAs (miRNAs) potentially important for the regulation of the rhizobia-symbiotic process. Generally, novel miRNAs are difficult to identify and study because they are very lowly expressed in a tissue- or cell-specific manner. In this work, we aimed to analyze sRNAs from common bean root hairs (RH), a single-cell model, induced with pure Rhizobium etli nodulation factors (NF), a unique type of signal molecule. The sequence analysis of samples from NF-induced and control libraries led to the identity of 132 mature miRNAs, including 63 novel miRNAs and 1984 phasiRNAs. From these, six miRNAs were significantly differentially expressed during NF induction, including one novel miRNA: miR-RH82. A parallel degradome analysis of the same samples revealed 29 targets potentially cleaved by novel miRNAs specifically in NF-induced RH samples; however, these novel miRNAs were not differentially accumulated in this tissue. This study reveals Phaseolus vulgaris-specific novel miRNA candidates and their corresponding targets that meet all criteria to be involved in the regulation of the early nodulation events, thus setting the basis for exploring miRNA-mediated improvement of the common bean-rhizobia symbiosis. 	2016 Jun	Formey, Damien; Formey, D; Formey; Martín-Rodríguez, José Ángel; Martín-Rodríguez, JÁ; Martín-Rodríguez; Leija, Alfonso; Leija, A; Leija; Santana, Olivia; Santana, O; Santana; Quinto, Carmen; Quinto, C; Quinto; Cárdenas, Luis; Cárdenas, L; Cárdenas; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	Int J Mol Sci
27242034	Abasy Atlas: a comprehensive inventory of systems, global network properties and systems-level elements across bacteria.	The availability of databases electronically encoding curated regulatory networks and of high-throughput technologies and methods to discover regulatory interactions provides an invaluable source of data to understand the principles underpinning the organization and evolution of these networks responsible for cellular regulation. Nevertheless, data on these sources never goes beyond the regulon level despite the fact that regulatory networks are complex hierarchical-modular structures still challenging our understanding. This brings the necessity for an inventory of systems across a large range of organisms, a key step to rendering feasible comparative systems biology approaches. In this work, we take the first step towards a global understanding of the regulatory networks organization by making a cartography of the functional architectures of diverse bacteria. Abasy ( A: cross- BA: cteria SY: stems) Atlas provides a comprehensive inventory of annotated functional systems, global network properties and systems-level elements (global regulators, modular genes shaping functional systems, basal machinery genes and intermodular genes) predicted by the natural decomposition approach for reconstructed and meta-curated regulatory networks across a large range of bacteria, including pathogenically and biotechnologically relevant organisms. The meta-curation of regulatory datasets provides the most complete and reliable set of regulatory interactions currently available, which can even be projected into subsets by considering the force or weight of evidence supporting them or the systems that they belong to. Besides, Abasy Atlas provides data enabling large-scale comparative systems biology studies aimed at understanding the common principles and particular lifestyle adaptions of systems across bacteria. Abasy Atlas contains systems and system-level elements for 50 regulatory networks comprising 78 649 regulatory interactions covering 42 bacteria in nine taxa, containing 3708 regulons and 1776 systems. All this brings together a large corpus of data that will surely inspire studies to generate hypothesis regarding the principles governing the evolution and organization of systems and the functional architectures controlling them.Database URL: http://abasy.ccg.unam.mx.	2016	Ibarra-Arellano, Miguel A; Ibarra-Arellano, MA; Ibarra-Arellano; Campos-González, Adrián I; Campos-González, AI; Campos-González; Treviño-Quintanilla, Luis G; Treviño-Quintanilla, LG; Treviño-Quintanilla; Tauch, Andreas; Tauch, A; Tauch; Freyre-González, Julio A; Freyre-González, JA; Freyre-González	Database (Oxford)
27150362	Whole-Genome Sequencing for Routine Pathogen Surveillance in Public Health: a Population Snapshot of Invasive Staphylococcus aureus in Europe.	The implementation of routine whole-genome sequencing (WGS) promises to transform our ability to monitor the emergence and spread of bacterial pathogens. Here we combined WGS data from 308 invasive Staphylococcus aureus isolates corresponding to a pan-European population snapshot, with epidemiological and resistance data. Geospatial visualization of the data is made possible by a generic software tool designed for public health purposes that is available at the project URL (http://www.microreact.org/project/EkUvg9uY?tt=rc). Our analysis demonstrates that high-risk clones can be identified on the basis of population level properties such as clonal relatedness, abundance, and spatial structuring and by inferring virulence and resistance properties on the basis of gene content. We also show that in silico predictions of antibiotic resistance profiles are at least as reliable as phenotypic testing. We argue that this work provides a comprehensive road map illustrating the three vital components for future molecular epidemiological surveillance: (i) large-scale structured surveys, (ii) WGS, and (iii) community-oriented database infrastructure and analysis tools.	2016 05	Aanensen, David M; Aanensen, DM; Aanensen; Feil, Edward J; Feil, EJ; Feil; Holden, Matthew T G; Holden, MT; Holden; Dordel, Janina; Dordel, J; Dordel; Yeats, Corin A; Yeats, CA; Yeats; Fedosejev, Artemij; Fedosejev, A; Fedosejev; Goater, Richard; Goater, R; Goater; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Corander, Jukka; Corander, J; Corander; Colijn, Caroline; Colijn, C; Colijn; Chlebowicz, Monika A; Chlebowicz, MA; Chlebowicz; Schouls, Leo; Schouls, L; Schouls; Heck, Max; Heck, M; Heck; Pluister, Gerlinde; Pluister, G; Pluister; Ruimy, Raymond; Ruimy, R; Ruimy; Kahlmeter, Gunnar; Kahlmeter, G; Kahlmeter; Åhman, Jenny; Åhman, J; Åhman; Matuschek, Erika; Matuschek, E; Matuschek; Friedrich, Alexander W; Friedrich, AW; Friedrich; Parkhill, Julian; Parkhill, J; Parkhill; Bentley, Stephen D; Bentley, SD; Bentley; Spratt, Brian G; Spratt, BG; Spratt; Grundmann, Hajo; Grundmann, H; Grundmann; European SRL Working Group	mBio
27066241	Independent origins of resistance or susceptibility of parasitic wasps to a defensive symbiont.	Insect microbe associations are diverse, widespread, and influential. Among the fitness effects of microbes on their hosts, defense against natural enemies is increasingly recognized as ubiquitous, particularly among those associations involving heritable, yet facultative, bacteria. Protective mutualisms generate complex ecological and coevolutionary dynamics that are only beginning to be elucidated. These depend in part on the degree to which symbiont-mediated protection exhibits specificity to one or more members of the natural enemy community. Recent findings in a well-studied defensive mutualism system (i.e., aphids, bacteria, parasitoid wasps) reveal repeated instances of evolution of susceptibility or resistance to defensive bacteria by parasitoids. This study searched for similar patterns in an emerging model system for defensive mutualisms: the interaction of Drosophila, bacteria in the genus Spiroplasma, and wasps that parasitize larval stages of Drosophila. Previous work indicated that three divergent species of parasitic wasps are strongly inhibited by the presence of Spiroplasma in three divergent species of Drosophila, including D. melanogaster. The results of this study uncovered two additional wasp species that are susceptible to Spiroplasma and two that are unaffected by Spiroplasma, implying at least two instances of loss or gain of susceptibility to Spiroplasma among larval parasitoids of Drosophila. 	2016 May	Mateos, Mariana; Mateos, M; Mateos; Winter, Lauryn; Winter, L; Winter; Winter, Caitlyn; Winter, C; Winter; Higareda-Alvear, Victor M; Higareda-Alvear, VM; Higareda-Alvear; Martinez-Romero, Esperanza; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Xie, Jialei; Xie, J; Xie	Ecol Evol
26058415	Species-specific diversity of novel bacterial lineages and differential abundance of predicted pathways for toxic compound degradation in scorpion gut microbiota.	Scorpions are considered 'living fossils' that have conserved ancestral anatomical features and have adapted to numerous habitats. However, their gut microbiota diversity has not been studied. Here, we characterized the gut microbiota of two scorpion species, Vaejovis smithi and Centruroides limpidus. Our results indicate that scorpion gut microbiota is species-specific and that food deprivation reduces bacterial diversity. 16S rRNA gene phylogenetic analysis revealed novel bacterial lineages showing a low level of sequence identity to any known bacteria. Furthermore, these novel bacterial lineages were each restricted to a different scorpion species. Additionally, our results of the predicted metagenomic profiles revealed a core set of pathways that were highly abundant in both species, and mostly related to amino acid, carbohydrate, vitamin and cofactor metabolism. Notably, the food-deprived V. smithi shotgun metagenome matched almost completely the metabolic features of the prediction. Finally, comparisons among predicted metagenomic profiles showed that toxic compound degradation pathways were more abundant in recently captured C. limpidus scorpions. This study gives a first insight into the scorpion gut microbiota and provides a reference for future studies on the gut microbiota from other arachnid species.	2016 05	Bolaños, Luis M; Bolaños, LM; Bolaños; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Figuier-Huttin, Gilles; Figuier-Huttin, G; Figuier-Huttin; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Environ Microbiol
27125479	Draft Genome Sequence of Burkholderia cenocepacia Strain CEIB S5-2, a Methyl Parathion- and p-Nitrophenol-Degrading Bacterium, Isolated from Agricultural Soils in Morelos, Mexico.	Burkholderia cenocepacia is an opportunistic pathogen that belongs to Burkholderia cepacia complex (BCC). Burkholderia cenocepacia strain CEIB S5-2 was isolated from agricultural soils in Morelos, Mexico, and previously has shown its abilities for bioremediation. In this study, we report the draft genome sequence of Burkholderia cenocepacia strain CEIB S5-2. 	2016 Apr	Martínez-Ocampo, Fernando; Martínez-Ocampo, F; Martínez-Ocampo; Fernández López, Maikel Gilberto; Fernández López, MG; Fernández López; Lozano-Aguirre Beltrán, Luis Fernando; Lozano-Aguirre Beltrán, LF; Lozano-Aguirre Beltrán; Popoca-Ursino, Elida Carolina; Popoca-Ursino, EC; Popoca-Ursino; Ortiz-Hernández, M Laura; Ortiz-Hernández, ML; Ortiz-Hernández; Sánchez-Salinas, Enrique; Sánchez-Salinas, E; Sánchez-Salinas; Ramos Quintana, Fernando; Ramos Quintana, F; Ramos Quintana; Villalobos-López, Miguel A; Villalobos-López, MA; Villalobos-López; Dantán-González, Edgar; Dantán-González, E; Dantán-González	Genome Announc
27135538	Global Rebalancing of Cellular Resources by Pleiotropic Point Mutations Illustrates a Multi-scale Mechanism of Adaptive Evolution.	Pleiotropic regulatory mutations affect diverse cellular processes, posing a challenge to our understanding of genotype-phenotype relationships across multiple biological scales. Adaptive laboratory evolution (ALE) allows for such mutations to be found and characterized in the context of clear selection pressures. Here, several ALE-selected single-mutation variants in RNA polymerase (RNAP) of Escherichia coli are detailed using an integrated multi-scale experimental and computational approach. While these mutations increase cellular growth rates in steady environments, they reduce tolerance to stress and environmental fluctuations. We detail structural changes in the RNAP that rewire the transcriptional machinery to rebalance proteome and energy allocation toward growth and away from several hedging and stress functions. We find that while these mutations occur in diverse locations in the RNAP, they share a common adaptive mechanism. In turn, these findings highlight the resource allocation trade-offs organisms face and suggest how the structure of the regulatory network enhances evolvability.	2016 04	Utrilla, Jose; Utrilla, J; Utrilla; O'Brien, Edward J; O'Brien, EJ; O'Brien; Chen, Ke; Chen, K; Chen; McCloskey, Douglas; McCloskey, D; McCloskey; Cheung, Jacky; Cheung, J; Cheung; Wang, Harris; Wang, H; Wang; Armenta-Medina, Dagoberto; Armenta-Medina, D; Armenta-Medina; Feist, Adam M; Feist, AM; Feist; Palsson, Bernhard O; Palsson, BO; Palsson	Cell Syst
26780421	The Innate Immune Signaling System as a Regulator of Disease Resistance and Induced Systemic Resistance Activity Against Verticillium dahliae.	In the last decades, the plant innate immune responses against pathogens have been extensively studied, while biocontrol interactions between soilborne fungal pathogens and their hosts have received much less attention. Treatment of Arabidopsis thaliana with the nonpathogenic bacterium Paenibacillus alvei K165 was shown previously to protect against Verticillium dahliae by triggering induced systemic resistance (ISR). In the present study, we evaluated the involvement of the innate immune response in the K165-mediated protection of Arabidopsis against V. dahliae. Tests with Arabidopsis mutants impaired in several regulators of the early steps of the innate immune responses, including fls2, efr-1, bak1-4, mpk3, mpk6, wrky22, and wrky29 showed that FLS2 and WRKY22 have a central role in the K165-triggered ISR, while EFR1, MPK3, and MPK6 are possible susceptibility factors for V. dahliae and bak1 shows a tolerance phenomenon. The resistance induced by strain K165 is dependent on both salicylate and jasmonate-dependent defense pathways, as evidenced by an increased transient accumulation of PR1 and PDF1.2 transcripts in the aerial parts of infected plants treated with strain K165. 	2016 Apr	Gkizi, Danai; Gkizi, D; Gkizi; Lehmann, Silke; Lehmann, S; Lehmann; L'Haridon, Floriane; L'Haridon, F; L'Haridon; Serrano, Mario; Serrano, M; Serrano; Paplomatas, Epaminondas J; Paplomatas, EJ; Paplomatas; Métraux, Jean-Pierre; Métraux, JP; Métraux; Tjamos, Sotirios E; Tjamos, SE; Tjamos	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
26988045	Complete Genome Sequence of Bradyrhizobium sp. Strain CCGE-LA001, Isolated from Field Nodules of the Enigmatic Wild Bean Phaseolus microcarpus.	We present the complete genome sequence of Bradyrhizobium sp. strain CCGE-LA001, a nitrogen-fixing bacterium isolated from nodules of Phaseolus microcarpus. Strain CCGE-LA001 represents the first sequenced bradyrhizobial strain obtained from a wild Phaseolus sp. Its genome revealed a large and novel symbiotic island. 	2016 Mar	Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis E; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Zayas-Del Moral, Alejandra; Zayas-Del Moral, A; Zayas-Del Moral; Sánchez, Federico; Sánchez, F; Sánchez; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Genome Announc
26912775	Regulation of differentiation flux by Notch signalling influences the number of dopaminergic neurons in the adult brain.	Notch signalling is a well-established pathway that regulates neurogenesis. However, little is known about the role of Notch signalling in specific neuronal differentiation. Using Dll1 null mice, we found that Notch signalling has no function in the specification of mesencephalic dopaminergic neural precursor cells (NPCs), but plays an important role in regulating their expansion and differentiation into neurons. Premature neuronal differentiation was observed in mesencephalons of Dll1-deficient mice or after treatment with a Notch signalling inhibitor. Coupling between neurogenesis and dopaminergic differentiation was indicated from the coincident emergence of neuronal and dopaminergic markers. Early in differentiation, decreasing Notch signalling caused a reduction in NPCs and an increase in dopaminergic neurons in association with dynamic changes in the proportion of sequentially-linked dopaminergic NPCs (Msx1/2+, Ngn2+, Nurr1+). These effects in differentiation caused a significant reduction in the number of dopaminergic neurons produced. Accordingly, Dll1 haploinsufficient adult mice, in comparison with their wild-type littermates, have a consistent reduction in neuronal density that was particularly evident in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Our results are in agreement with a mathematical model based on a Dll1-mediated regulatory feedback loop between early progenitors and their dividing precursors that controls the emergence and number of dopaminergic neurons. 	2016 Feb	Trujillo-Paredes, Niurka; Trujillo-Paredes, N; Trujillo-Paredes; Valencia, Concepción; Valencia, C; Valencia; Guerrero-Flores, Gilda; Guerrero-Flores, G; Guerrero-Flores; Arzate, Dulce-María; Arzate, DM; Arzate; Baizabal, José-Manuel; Baizabal, JM; Baizabal; Guerra-Crespo, Magdalena; Guerra-Crespo, M; Guerra-Crespo; Fuentes-Hernández, Ayari; Fuentes-Hernández, A; Fuentes-Hernández; Zea-Armenta, Iván; Zea-Armenta, I; Zea-Armenta; Covarrubias, Luis; Covarrubias, L; Covarrubias	Biol Open
26955886	Trans-Atlantic exchanges have shaped the population structure of the Lyme disease agent Borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto.	The origin and population structure of Borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto (s.s.), the agent of Lyme disease, remain obscure. This tick-transmitted bacterial species occurs in both North America and Europe. We sequenced 17 European isolates (representing the most frequently found sequence types in Europe) and compared these with 17 North American strains. We show that trans-Atlantic exchanges have occurred in the evolutionary history of this species and that a European origin of B. burgdorferi s.s. is marginally more likely than a USA origin. The data further suggest that some European human patients may have acquired their infection in North America. We found three distinct genetically differentiated groups: i) the outgroup species Borrelia bissettii, ii) two divergent strains from Europe, and iii) a group composed of strains from both the USA and Europe. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that different genotypes were likely to have been introduced several times into the same area. Our results demonstrate that irrespective of whether B. burgdorferi s.s. originated in Europe or the USA, later trans-Atlantic exchange(s) have occurred and have shaped the population structure of this genospecies. This study clearly shows the utility of next generation sequencing to obtain a better understanding of the phylogeography of this bacterial species. 	2016 Mar	Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Fingerle, V; Fingerle, V; Fingerle; Jungnick, S; Jungnick, S; Jungnick; Straubinger, R K; Straubinger, RK; Straubinger; Krebs, S; Krebs, S; Krebs; Blum, H; Blum, H; Blum; Meinel, D M; Meinel, DM; Meinel; Hofmann, H; Hofmann, H; Hofmann; Guertler, P; Guertler, P; Guertler; Sing, A; Sing, A; Sing; Margos, G; Margos, G; Margos	Sci Rep
26873555	Antifungal performance of extracellular chitinases and culture supernatants of Streptomyces galilaeus CFFSUR-B12 against Mycosphaerella fijiensis Morelet.	The tropical and mycoparasite strain Streptomyces galilaeus CFFSUR-B12 was evaluated as an antagonist of Mycosphaerella fijiensis Morelet, causal agent of the Black Sigatoka Disease (BSD) of banana. On zymograms of CFFSUR-B12 culture supernatants, we detected four chitinases of approximately 32 kDa (Chi32), 20 kDa (Chi20), and two with masses well over 170 kDa (ChiU) that showed little migration during denaturing electrophoresis at different concentrations of polyacrylamide. The thymol-sulphuric acid assay showed that the ChiU were glycosylated chitinases. Moreover, matrix assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight MS analysis revealed that the ChiU are the same protein and identical to a family 18 chitinase from Streptomyces sp. S4 (gi|498328075). Chi32 was similar to an extracellular protein from Streptomyces albus J1074 (gi|478687481) and Chi20 was non-significantly similar to chitinases from five different strains of Streptomyces (P > 0.05). Subsequently, Chi32 and Chi20 were partially purified by anion exchange and hydrophobic interaction chromatography and tested against M. fijiensis. Chitinases failed to inhibit ascospore germination, but inhibited up to 35 and 62% of germ tube elongation and mycelial growth, respectively. We found that crude culture supernatant and living cells of S. galilaeus CFFSUR-B12 were the most effective in inhibiting M. fijiensis and are potential biocontrol agents of BSD.	2016 Mar	Castillo, Benjamín Moreno; Castillo, BM; Castillo; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Navarro, Karina Guillén; Navarro, KG; Navarro; Meléndez, Francisco Holguín; Meléndez, FH; Meléndez; Ortiz, Magdalena Hernández; Ortiz, MH; Ortiz; Guevara, Sergio Encarnación; Guevara, SE; Guevara; Palacios, Graciela Huerta; Palacios, GH; Palacios	World J Microbiol Biotechnol
26954369	Outbreak Caused by blaOXA-72-Producing Acinetobacter baumannii ST417 Detected in Clinical and Environmental Isolates.	We characterized an outbreak of imipenem-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii with clinical and environmental isolates from a tertiary care hospital in San Luis Potosi, Mexico. During a 4-month period, a total of 32 nonrepetitive imipenem-resistant clinical isolates of A. baumannii were collected. All isolates were susceptible to colistin and tigecycline and resistant to cefepime, ceftazidime, ceftriaxone, imipenem, and meropenem. Genotyping by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis showed a major clone (A). Multilocus sequence type (MLST) analysis was performed, revealing sequence type (ST) 417 (ST417) and 208 (ST208). The blaIMP-, blaVIM-, blaGIM-, blaSIM-, blaNDM-type, and blaOXA-type (blaOXA-23-like, blaOXA-24-like, blaOXA-51-like, and blaOXA-58-like) genes were screened and showed that the blaOXA-51-like and blaOXA-24-like genes were present in all isolates. Sequencing and southern hybridization were performed, confirming the presence of the blaOXA-72 gene and its plasmid-borne nature. In addition, the blaOXA-72-XerC/XerD-like association was identified. These findings indicate that a clonal spread of blaOXA-72-producing A. baumannii ST417 had occurred throughout the hospital. The ST417 corresponded with a previous ST described in the United States. 	2016 Mar	Tamayo-Legorreta, Elsa; Tamayo-Legorreta, E; Tamayo-Legorreta; Turrubiartes-Martínez, Edgar; Turrubiartes-Martínez, E; Turrubiartes-Martínez; Garza-Ramos, Ulises; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos; Niño-Moreno, Perla; Niño-Moreno, P; Niño-Moreno; Barrios, Humberto; Barrios, H; Barrios; Sánchez-Pérez, Alejandro; Sánchez-Pérez, A; Sánchez-Pérez; Reyna-Flores, Fernando; Reyna-Flores, F; Reyna-Flores; Tovar-Oviedo, Juana; Tovar-Oviedo, J; Tovar-Oviedo; Magaña-Aquino, Martin; Magaña-Aquino, M; Magaña-Aquino; Cevallos, Miguel Angel; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Silva-Sanchez, Jesus; Silva-Sanchez, J; Silva-Sanchez	Microb Drug Resist
26586805	COLOMBOS v3.0: leveraging gene expression compendia for cross-species analyses.	COLOMBOS is a database that integrates publicly available transcriptomics data for several prokaryotic model organisms. Compared to the previous version it has more than doubled in size, both in terms of species and data available. The manually curated condition annotation has been overhauled as well, giving more complete information about samples' experimental conditions and their differences. Functionality-wise cross-species analyses now enable users to analyse expression data for all species simultaneously, and identify candidate genes with evolutionary conserved expression behaviour. All the expression-based query tools have undergone a substantial improvement, overcoming the limit of enforced co-expression data retrieval and instead enabling the return of more complex patterns of expression behaviour. COLOMBOS is freely available through a web application at http://colombos.net/. The complete database is also accessible via REST API or downloadable as tab-delimited text files. 	2016 Jan	Moretto, Marco; Moretto, M; Moretto; Sonego, Paolo; Sonego, P; Sonego; Dierckxsens, Nicolas; Dierckxsens, N; Dierckxsens; Brilli, Matteo; Brilli, M; Brilli; Bianco, Luca; Bianco, L; Bianco; Ledezma-Tejeida, Daniela; Ledezma-Tejeida, D; Ledezma-Tejeida; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Galardini, Marco; Galardini, M; Galardini; Romualdi, Chiara; Romualdi, C; Romualdi; Laukens, Kris; Laukens, K; Laukens; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Meysman, Pieter; Meysman, P; Meysman; Engelen, Kristof; Engelen, K; Engelen	Nucleic Acids Res
26527724	RegulonDB version 9.0: high-level integration of gene regulation, coexpression, motif clustering and beyond.	RegulonDB (http://regulondb.ccg.unam.mx) is one of the most useful and important resources on bacterial gene regulation,as it integrates the scattered scientific knowledge of the best-characterized organism, Escherichia coli K-12, in a database that organizes large amounts of data. Its electronic format enables researchers to compare their results with the legacy of previous knowledge and supports bioinformatics tools and model building. Here, we summarize our progress with RegulonDB since our last Nucleic Acids Research publication describing RegulonDB, in 2013. In addition to maintaining curation up-to-date, we report a collection of 232 interactions with small RNAs affecting 192 genes, and the complete repertoire of 189 Elementary Genetic Sensory-Response units (GENSOR units), integrating the signal, regulatory interactions, and metabolic pathways they govern. These additions represent major progress to a higher level of understanding of regulated processes. We have updated the computationally predicted transcription factors, which total 304 (184 with experimental evidence and 120 from computational predictions); we updated our position-weight matrices and have included tools for clustering them in evolutionary families. We describe our semiautomatic strategy to accelerate curation, including datasets from high-throughput experiments, a novel coexpression distance to search for 'neighborhood' genes to known operons and regulons, and computational developments. 	2016 Jan	Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Ledezma-Tejeida, Daniela; Ledezma-Tejeida, D; Ledezma-Tejeida; Muñiz-Rascado, Luis; Muñiz-Rascado, L; Muñiz-Rascado; García-Sotelo, Jair Santiago; García-Sotelo, JS; García-Sotelo; Alquicira-Hernández, Kevin; Alquicira-Hernández, K; Alquicira-Hernández; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; Pannier, Lucia; Pannier, L; Pannier; Castro-Mondragón, Jaime Abraham; Castro-Mondragón, JA; Castro-Mondragón; Medina-Rivera, Alejandra; Medina-Rivera, A; Medina-Rivera; Solano-Lira, Hilda; Solano-Lira, H; Solano-Lira; Bonavides-Martínez, César; Bonavides-Martínez, C; Bonavides-Martínez; Pérez-Rueda, Ernesto; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda; Alquicira-Hernández, Shirley; Alquicira-Hernández, S; Alquicira-Hernández; Porrón-Sotelo, Liliana; Porrón-Sotelo, L; Porrón-Sotelo; López-Fuentes, Alejandra; López-Fuentes, A; López-Fuentes; Hernández-Koutoucheva, Anastasia; Hernández-Koutoucheva, A; Hernández-Koutoucheva; Del Moral-Chávez, Víctor; Del Moral-Chávez, V; Del Moral-Chávez; Rinaldi, Fabio; Rinaldi, F; Rinaldi; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
27340065	Complete Genome Sequence of a Multidrug-Resistant Acinetobacter baumannii Isolate Obtained from a Mexican Hospital (Sequence Type 422).	Acinetobacter baumannii has emerged as a dangerous nosocomial pathogen, particularly for severely ill patients in intensive care units and patients with hematologic malignancies. Here, we present the complete genome sequence of a multidrug-resistant A. baumannii isolate, recovered from a Mexican hospital and classified as sequence type 422 according to the multilocus sequence typing Pasteur scheme. 	2016 Jun	Castro-Jaimes, Semiramis; Castro-Jaimes, S; Castro-Jaimes; Salgado-Camargo, Abraham David; Salgado-Camargo, AD; Salgado-Camargo; Graña-Miraglia, Lucía; Graña-Miraglia, L; Graña-Miraglia; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Bocanegra-Ibarias, Paola; Bocanegra-Ibarias, P; Bocanegra-Ibarias; Volkow-Fernández, Patricia; Volkow-Fernández, P; Volkow-Fernández; Silva-Sanchez, Jesus; Silva-Sanchez, J; Silva-Sanchez; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	Genome Announc
26769924	Complete Genome Sequence of Helicobacter pylori Strain 29CaP Isolated from a Mexican Patient with Gastric Cancer.	Helicobacter pylori infection is a risk factor for the development of gastric cancer and other gastroduodenal diseases. We report here the complete genome sequence of H. pylori strain 29CaP, isolated from a Mexican patient with gastric cancer. The genomic data analysis revealed a cag-negative H. pylori strain that contains a prophage sequence. 	2016 Jan	Mucito-Varela, Eduardo; Mucito-Varela, E; Mucito-Varela; Castillo-Rojas, Gonzalo; Castillo-Rojas, G; Castillo-Rojas; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Merino, Enrique; Merino, E; Merino; López-Leal, Gamaliel; López-Leal, G; López-Leal; López-Vidal, Yolanda; López-Vidal, Y; López-Vidal	Genome Announc
26744372	Complete Genome Sequence of Helicobacter pylori Strain 7C Isolated from a Mexican Patient with Chronic Gastritis.	Helicobacter pylori-induced gastritis is a risk factor for developing gastric pathologies. Here, we report the complete genome sequence of a multidrug-resistant H. pylori strain isolated from a chronic gastritis patient in Mexico City, Mexico. Nonvirulent VacA and cag-pathogenicity island (PAI) genotypes were found, but the presence of a potential mobilizable plasmid carrying an IS605 element is of outstanding interest. 	2016 Jan	Mucito-Varela, Eduardo; Mucito-Varela, E; Mucito-Varela; Castillo-Rojas, Gonzalo; Castillo-Rojas, G; Castillo-Rojas; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Merino, Enrique; Merino, E; Merino; López-Leal, Gamaliel; López-Leal, G; López-Leal; López-Vidal, Yolanda; López-Vidal, Y; López-Vidal	Genome Announc
27081133	Complete Genome Sequence of Salmonella enterica Serovar Typhimurium Strain SO2 (Sequence Type 302) Isolated from an Asymptomatic Child in Mexico.	The complete genome sequence ofSalmonella entericaserovar Typhimurium strain SO2, isolated from an asymptomatic child in Mexico, was determined using PacBio single-molecule real-time technology. Strain SO2 has six complete chromosomal prophages, namely, ST104, Gifsy-2, ST64B, Gifsy-1, ELPhiS, and FSL SP-004, and carries aSalmonellavirulence plasmid. 	2016 Apr	Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva; Calva, Edmundo; Calva, E; Calva; Puente, José L; Puente, JL; Puente; Zaidi, Mussaret B; Zaidi, MB; Zaidi; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa	Genome Announc
27103717	Complete Genome Sequence of Salmonella enterica Serovar Typhimurium Strain SO3 (Sequence Type 302) Isolated from a Baby with Meningitis in Mexico.	The complete genome of ITALIC! Salmonella entericaserovar Typhimurium strain SO3 (sequence type 302), isolated from a fatal meningitis infection in Mexico, was determined using PacBio technology. The chromosome hosts six complete prophages and is predicted to harbor 51 genomic islands, including 13 pathogenicity islands (SPIs). It carries the ITALIC! Salmonellavirulence plasmid (pSTV). 	2016 Apr	Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Puente, José L; Puente, JL; Puente; Calva, Edmundo; Calva, E; Calva; Zaidi, Mussaret B; Zaidi, MB; Zaidi; Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva	Genome Announc
27081132	Complete Genome Sequence of Salmonella enterica Serovar Typhimurium Strain YU15 (Sequence Type 19) Harboring the Salmonella Genomic Island 1 and Virulence Plasmid pSTV.	The complete genome ofSalmonella entericasubsp.entericaserovar Typhimurium sequence type 19 (ST19) strain YU15, isolated in Yucatán, Mexico, from a human baby stool culture, was determined using PacBio technology. The chromosome contains five intact prophages and theSalmonellagenomic island 1 (SGI1). This strain carries theSalmonellavirulence plasmid pSTV. 	2016 Apr	Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva; Calva, Edmundo; Calva, E; Calva; Puente, José L; Puente, JL; Puente; Zaidi, Mussaret B; Zaidi, MB; Zaidi; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa	Genome Announc
26798087	Complete Genome Sequence of Serratia marcescens SmUNAM836, a Nonpigmented Multidrug-Resistant Strain Isolated from a Mexican Patient with Obstructive Pulmonary Disease.	Serratia marcescens SmUNAM836 is a multidrug-resistant clinical strain isolated in Mexico City from a patient with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Its complete genome sequence was determined using PacBio RS II SMRT technology, consisting of a 5.2-Mb chromosome and a 26.3-kb plasmid, encoding multiple resistance determinants and virulence factors. 	2016 Jan	Sandner-Miranda, Luisa; Sandner-Miranda, L; Sandner-Miranda; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Soberón-Chávez, Gloria; Soberón-Chávez, G; Soberón-Chávez; Morales-Espinosa, Rosario; Morales-Espinosa, R; Morales-Espinosa	Genome Announc
27013046	Draft Genome Sequence of an Endophytic Actinoplanes Species, Encoding Uncommon trans-Acyltransferase Polyketide Synthases.	Actinoplanesis an endophytic actinobacterium isolated from the medicinal plantAmphipterygium adstringens The strain draft genome sequence reveals a gene cluster involved in the biosynthesis of a hybridtrans-acyltransferase (AT) polyketide, an unconventional bioactive metabolite never reported before in the genusActinoplanes. 	2016 Mar	Centeno-Leija, Sara; Centeno-Leija, S; Centeno-Leija; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Rodríguez-Peña, Karol; Rodríguez-Peña, K; Rodríguez-Peña; Trenado-Uribe, Miriam; Trenado-Uribe, M; Trenado-Uribe; Cárdenas-Conejo, Yair; Cárdenas-Conejo, Y; Cárdenas-Conejo; Serrano-Posada, Hugo; Serrano-Posada, H; Serrano-Posada; Rodríguez-Sanoja, Romina; Rodríguez-Sanoja, R; Rodríguez-Sanoja; Sánchez, Sergio; Sánchez, S; Sánchez	Genome Announc
26214613	Endemic Mimosa species from Mexico prefer alphaproteobacterial rhizobial symbionts.	The legume genus Mimosa has > 500 species, with two major centres of diversity, Brazil (c. 350 spp.) and Mexico (c. 100 spp.). In Brazil most species are nodulated by Burkholderia. Here we asked whether this is also true of native and endemic Mexican species. We have tested this apparent affinity for betaproteobacteria by examining the symbionts of native and endemic species of Mimosa in Mexico, especially from the central highlands where Mimosa spp. have diversified. Nodules were tested for betaproteobacteria using in situ immunolocalization. Rhizobia isolated from the nodules were genetically characterized and tested for their ability to nodulate Mimosa spp. Immunological analysis of 25 host taxa suggested that most (including all the highland endemics) were not nodulated by betaproteobacteria. Phylogenetic analyses of 16S rRNA, recA, nodA, nodC and nifH genes from 87 strains isolated from 20 taxa confirmed that the endemic Mexican Mimosa species favoured alphaproteobacteria in the genera Rhizobium and Ensifer: this was confirmed by nodulation tests. Host phylogeny, geographic isolation and coevolution with symbionts derived from very different soils have potentially contributed to the striking difference in the choice of symbiotic partners by Mexican and Brazilian Mimosa species. 	2016 Jan	Bontemps, Cyril; Bontemps, C; Bontemps; Rogel, Marco Antonio; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Wiechmann, Anja; Wiechmann, A; Wiechmann; Mussabekova, Assel; Mussabekova, A; Mussabekova; Moody, Sarah; Moody, S; Moody; Simon, Marcelo F; Simon, MF; Simon; Moulin, Lionel; Moulin, L; Moulin; Elliott, Geoffrey N; Elliott, GN; Elliott; Lacercat-Didier, Laurence; Lacercat-Didier, L; Lacercat-Didier; Dasilva, Cindy; Dasilva, C; Dasilva; Grether, Rosaura; Grether, R; Grether; Camargo-Ricalde, Sara L; Camargo-Ricalde, SL; Camargo-Ricalde; Chen, Weimin; Chen, W; Chen; Sprent, Janet I; Sprent, JI; Sprent; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Young, J Peter W; Young, JP; Young; James, Euan K; James, EK; James	New Phytol
27199915	Evolution of a Sigma Factor: An All-In-One of Gene Duplication, Horizontal Gene Transfer, Purifying Selection, and Promoter Differentiation.	Sigma factors are an essential part of bacterial gene regulation and have been extensively studied as far as their molecular mechanisms and protein structure are concerned. However, their molecular evolution, especially for the alternative sigma factors, is poorly understood. Here, we analyze the evolutionary forces that have shaped the rpoH sigma factors within the alphaproteobacteria. We found that an ancient duplication gave rise to two major groups of rpoH sigma factors and that after this event horizontal gene transfer (HGT) occurred in rpoH 1 group. We also noted that purifying selection has differentially affected distinct parts of the gene; singularly, the gene segment that encodes the region 4.2, which interacts with the -35 motif of the RpoH-dependent genes, has been under relaxed purifying selection. Furthermore, these two major groups are clearly differentiated from one another regarding their promoter selectivity, as rpoH 1 is under the transcriptional control of σ(70) and σ(32), whereas rpoH 2 is under the transcriptional control of σ(24). Our results suggest a scenario in which HGT, gene loss, variable purifying selection and clear promoter specialization occurred after the ancestral duplication event. More generally, our study offers insights into the molecular evolution of alternative sigma factors and highlights the importance of analyzing not only the coding regions but also the promoter regions. 	2016	López-Leal, Gamaliel; López-Leal, G; López-Leal; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez	Front Microbiol
27013043	First Genome Sequence of a Mexican Multidrug-Resistant Acinetobacter baumannii Isolate.	Acinetobacter baumanniihas emerged as an important nosocomial pathogen worldwide. Here, we present the draft genome of the first multidrug-resistantA. baumanniiisolate, sampled from a tertiary hospital in Mexico City. This genome will provide a starting point for studying the genomic diversity of this species in Mexico. 	2016 Mar	Graña-Miraglia, Lucía; Graña-Miraglia, L; Graña-Miraglia; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Castro-Jaimes, Semiramis; Castro-Jaimes, S; Castro-Jaimes; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Volkow, Patricia; Volkow, P; Volkow; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez	Genome Announc
26733994	Plasticity of Streptomyces coelicolor Membrane Composition Under Different Growth Conditions and During Development.	Streptomyces coelicolor is a model actinomycete that is well known for the diversity of its secondary metabolism and its complex life cycle. As a soil inhabitant, it is exposed to heterogeneous and frequently changing environmental circumstances. In the present work, we studied the effect of diverse growth conditions and phosphate depletion on its lipid profile and the relationship between membrane lipid composition and development in S. coelicolor. The lipid profile from cultures grown on solid media, which is closer to the natural habitat of this microorganism, does not resemble the previously reported lipid composition from liquid grown cultures of S. coelicolor. Wide variations were also observed across different media, growth phases, and developmental stages indicating active membrane remodeling. Ornithine lipids (OL) are phosphorus-free polar lipids that were accumulated mainly during sporulation stages, but were also major components of the membrane under phosphorus limitation. In contrast, phosphatidylethanolamine, which had been reported as one of the major polar lipids in the genus Streptomyces, is almost absent under these conditions. We identified one of the genes responsible for the synthesis of OL (SCO0921) and found that its inactivation causes the absence of OL, precocious morphological development and actinorhodin production. Our observations indicate a remarkable plasticity of the membrane composition in this bacterial species, reveal a higher metabolic complexity than expected, and suggest a relationship between cytoplasmic membrane components and the differentiation programs in S. coelicolor. 	2015	Sandoval-Calderón, Mario; Sandoval-Calderón, M; Sandoval-Calderón; Nguyen, Don D; Nguyen, DD; Nguyen; Kapono, Clifford A; Kapono, CA; Kapono; Herron, Paul; Herron, P; Herron; Dorrestein, Pieter C; Dorrestein, PC; Dorrestein; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	Front Microbiol
26734060	The Road to Metagenomics: From Microbiology to DNA Sequencing Technologies and Bioinformatics.	The study of microorganisms that pervade each and every part of this planet has encountered many challenges through time such as the discovery of unknown organisms and the understanding of how they interact with their environment. The aim of this review is to take the reader along the timeline and major milestones that led us to modern metagenomics. This new and thriving area is likely to be an important contributor to solve different problems. The transition from classical microbiology to modern metagenomics studies has required the development of new branches of knowledge and specialization. Here, we will review how the availability of high-throughput sequencing technologies has transformed microbiology and bioinformatics and how to tackle the inherent computational challenges that arise from the DNA sequencing revolution. New computational methods are constantly developed to collect, process, and extract useful biological information from a variety of samples and complex datasets, but metagenomics needs the integration of several of these computational methods. Despite the level of specialization needed in bioinformatics, it is important that life-scientists have a good understanding of it for a correct experimental design, which allows them to reveal the information in a metagenome. 	2015	Escobar-Zepeda, Alejandra; Escobar-Zepeda, A; Escobar-Zepeda; Vera-Ponce de León, Arturo; Vera-Ponce de León, A; Vera-Ponce de León; Sanchez-Flores, Alejandro; Sanchez-Flores, A; Sanchez-Flores	Front Genet
25886267	Development of a multiplex-PCR probe system for the proper identification of Klebsiella variicola.	Klebsiella variicola was very recently described as a new bacterial species and is very closely related to Klebsiella pneumoniae; in fact, K. variicola isolates were first identified as K. pneumoniae. Therefore, it might be the case that some isolates, which were initially classified as K. pneumoniae, are actually K. variicola. The aim of this study was to devise a multiplex-PCR probe that can differentiate isolates from these sister species.	2015 Mar	Garza-Ramos, Ulises; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos; Silva-Sánchez, Jesús; Silva-Sánchez, J; Silva-Sánchez; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Tinoco, Perla; Tinoco, P; Tinoco; Pina-Gonzales, Marisol; Pina-Gonzales, M; Pina-Gonzales; Barrios, Humberto; Barrios, H; Barrios; Martínez-Barnetche, Jesús; Martínez-Barnetche, J; Martínez-Barnetche; Gómez-Barreto, Rosa Elena; Gómez-Barreto, RE; Gómez-Barreto; Tellez-Sosa, Juan; Tellez-Sosa, J; Tellez-Sosa	BMC Microbiol
26059339	Genome-wide identification of the Phaseolus vulgaris sRNAome using small RNA and degradome sequencing.	MiRNAs and phasiRNAs are negative regulators of gene expression. These small RNAs have been extensively studied in plant model species but only 10 mature microRNAs are present in miRBase version 21, the most used miRNA database, and no phasiRNAs have been identified for the model legume Phaseolus vulgaris. Thanks to the recent availability of the first version of the common bean genome, degradome data and small RNA libraries, we are able to present here a catalog of the microRNAs and phasiRNAs for this organism and, particularly, we suggest new protagonists in the symbiotic nodulation events.	2015 Jun	Formey, Damien; Formey, D; Formey; Iñiguez, Luis Pedro; Iñiguez, LP; Iñiguez; Peláez, Pablo; Peláez, P; Peláez; Li, Yong-Fang; Li, YF; Li; Sunkar, Ramanjulu; Sunkar, R; Sunkar; Sánchez, Federico; Sánchez, F; Sánchez; Reyes, José Luis; Reyes, JL; Reyes; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	BMC Genomics
26362866	Bradyrhizobium tropiciagri sp. nov. and Bradyrhizobium embrapense sp. nov., nitrogen-fixing symbionts of tropical forage legumes.	Biological nitrogen fixation is a key process for agricultural production and environmental sustainability, but there are comparatively few studies of symbionts of tropical pasture legumes, as well as few described species of the genus Bradyrhizobium, although it is the predominant rhizobial genus in the tropics. A detailed polyphasic study was conducted with two strains of the genus Bradyrhizobium used in commercial inoculants for tropical pastures in Brazil, CNPSo 1112T, isolated from perennial soybean (Neonotonia wightii), and CNPSo 2833T, from desmodium (Desmodium heterocarpon). Based on 16S-rRNA gene phylogeny, both strains were grouped in the Bradyrhizobium elkanii superclade, but were not clearly clustered with any known species. Multilocus sequence analysis of three (glnII, gyrB and recA) and five (plus atpD and dnaK) housekeeping genes confirmed that the strains are positioned in two distinct clades. Comparison with intergenic transcribed spacer sequences of type strains of described species of the genus Bradyrhizobium showed similarity lower than 93.1 %, and differences were confirmed by BOX-PCR analysis. Nucleotide identity of three housekeeping genes with type strains of described species ranged from 88.1 to 96.2 %. Average nucleotide identity of genome sequences showed values below the threshold for distinct species of the genus Bradyrhizobium ( < 90.6 %), and the value between the two strains was also below this threshold (91.2 %). Analysis of nifH and nodC gene sequences positioned the two strains in a clade distinct from other species of the genus Bradyrhizobium. Morphophysiological, genotypic and genomic data supported the description of two novel species in the genus Bradyrhizobium, Bradyrhizobium tropiciagri sp. nov. (type strain CNPSo 1112T = SMS 303T = BR 1009T = SEMIA 6148T = LMG 28867T) and Bradyrhizobium embrapense sp. nov. (type strain CNPSo 2833T = CIAT 2372T = BR 2212T = SEMIA 6208T = U674T = LMG 2987).	2015 Dec	Delamuta, Jakeline Renata Marçon; Delamuta, JRM; Delamuta; Ribeiro, Renan Augusto; Ribeiro, RA; Ribeiro; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Parma, Marcia Maria; Parma, MM; Parma; Melo, Itamar Soares; Melo, IS; Melo; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Hungria, Mariangela; Hungria, M; Hungria	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
26362781	Bradyrhizobium viridifuturi sp. nov., encompassing nitrogen-fixing symbionts of legumes used for green manure and environmental services.	Symbiotic nitrogen-fixing bacteria, commonly called rhizobia, are agronomically important because they can provide significant amounts of nitrogen to plants and help in recovery of impoverished soils and improvement of degraded environments. In recent years, with advances in molecular techniques, several studies have shown that these bacteria have high levels of genetic diversity, resulting in taxonomic reclassifications and descriptions of new species. However, despite the advances achieved, highly conserved 16S ribosomal genes (16S rRNA) do not elucidate differences between species of several genera, including the genus Bradyrhizobium. Other methodologies, such as multilocus sequence analysis (MLSA), have been used in such cases, with good results. In this study, three strains (SEMIAs 690T, 6387 and 6428) of the genus Bradyrhizobium, isolated from nitrogen-fixing nodules of Centrosema and Acacia species, without clear taxonomic positions, were studied. These strains differed from genetically closely related species according to the results of MLSA of four housekeeping genes (dnaK, glnII, gyrB and recA) and nucleotide identities of the concatenated genes with those of related species ranged from 87.8 % to 95.7 %, being highest with Bradyrhizobium elkanii. DNA-DNA hybridization (less than 32 % DNA relatedness) and average nucleotide identity values of the whole genomes (less than 90.5 %) indicated that these strains represented a novel species, and phenotypic traits were determined. Our data supported the description of the SEMIA strains as Bradyrhizobium viridifuturi sp. nov., and SEMIA 690T ( = CNPSo 991T = C 100aT = BR 1804T = LMG 28866T), isolated from Centrosema pubescens, was chosen as type strain.	2015 Dec	Ferraz Helene, Luisa Caroline; Ferraz Helene, LC; Ferraz Helene; Marçon Delamuta, Jakeline Renata; Marçon Delamuta, JR; Marçon Delamuta; Augusto Ribeiro, Renan; Augusto Ribeiro, R; Augusto Ribeiro; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Antonio Rogel, Marco; Antonio Rogel, M; Antonio Rogel; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Hungria, Mariangela; Hungria, M; Hungria	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
26627477	Deletion of the 2-acyl-glycerophosphoethanolamine cycle improve glucose metabolism in Escherichia coli strains employed for overproduction of aromatic compounds.	As a metabolic engineering tool, an adaptive laboratory evolution (ALE) experiment was performed to increase the specific growth rate (µ) in an Escherichia coli strain lacking PTS, originally engineered to increase the availability of intracellular phosphoenolpyruvate and redirect to the aromatic biosynthesis pathway. As result, several evolved strains increased their growth fitness on glucose as the only carbon source. Two of these clones isolated at 120 and 200 h during the experiment, increased their μ by 338 and 373 %, respectively, compared to the predecessor PB11 strain. The genome sequence and analysis of the genetic changes of these two strains (PB12 and PB13) allowed for the identification of a novel strategy to enhance carbon utilization to overcome the absence of the major glucose transport system.	2015 Dec	Aguilar, César; Aguilar, C; Aguilar; Flores, Noemí; Flores, N; Flores; Riveros-McKay, Fernando; Riveros-McKay, F; Riveros-McKay; Sahonero-Canavesi, Diana; Sahonero-Canavesi, D; Sahonero-Canavesi; Carmona, Susy Beatriz; Carmona, SB; Carmona; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Escalante, Adelfo; Escalante, A; Escalante; Bolívar, Francisco; Bolívar, F; Bolívar	Microb Cell Fact
26637982	TAF1 Variants Are Associated with Dysmorphic Features, Intellectual Disability, and Neurological Manifestations.	We describe an X-linked genetic syndrome associated with mutations in TAF1 and manifesting with global developmental delay, intellectual disability (ID), characteristic facial dysmorphology, generalized hypotonia, and variable neurologic features, all in male individuals. Simultaneous studies using diverse strategies led to the identification of nine families with overlapping clinical presentations and affected by de novo or maternally inherited single-nucleotide changes. Two additional families harboring large duplications involving TAF1 were also found to share phenotypic overlap with the probands harboring single-nucleotide changes, but they also demonstrated a severe neurodegeneration phenotype. Functional analysis with RNA-seq for one of the families suggested that the phenotype is associated with downregulation of a set of genes notably enriched with genes regulated by E-box proteins. In addition, knockdown and mutant studies of this gene in zebrafish have shown a quantifiable, albeit small, effect on a neuronal phenotype. Our results suggest that mutations in TAF1 play a critical role in the development of this X-linked ID syndrome. 	2015 Dec	O'Rawe, Jason A; O'Rawe, JA; O'Rawe; Wu, Yiyang; Wu, Y; Wu; Dörfel, Max J; Dörfel, MJ; Dörfel; Rope, Alan F; Rope, AF; Rope; Au, P Y Billie; Au, PY; Au; Parboosingh, Jillian S; Parboosingh, JS; Parboosingh; Moon, Sungjin; Moon, S; Moon; Kousi, Maria; Kousi, M; Kousi; Kosma, Konstantina; Kosma, K; Kosma; Smith, Christopher S; Smith, CS; Smith; Tzetis, Maria; Tzetis, M; Tzetis; Schuette, Jane L; Schuette, JL; Schuette; Hufnagel, Robert B; Hufnagel, RB; Hufnagel; Prada, Carlos E; Prada, CE; Prada; Martinez, Francisco; Martinez, F; Martinez; Orellana, Carmen; Orellana, C; Orellana; Crain, Jonathan; Crain, J; Crain; Caro-Llopis, Alfonso; Caro-Llopis, A; Caro-Llopis; Oltra, Silvestre; Oltra, S; Oltra; Monfort, Sandra; Monfort, S; Monfort; Jiménez-Barrón, Laura T; Jiménez-Barrón, LT; Jiménez-Barrón; Swensen, Jeffrey; Swensen, J; Swensen; Ellingwood, Sara; Ellingwood, S; Ellingwood; Smith, Rosemarie; Smith, R; Smith; Fang, Han; Fang, H; Fang; Ospina, Sandra; Ospina, S; Ospina; Stegmann, Sander; Stegmann, S; Stegmann; Den Hollander, Nicolette; Den Hollander, N; Den Hollander; Mittelman, David; Mittelman, D; Mittelman; Highnam, Gareth; Highnam, G; Highnam; Robison, Reid; Robison, R; Robison; Yang, Edward; Yang, E; Yang; Faivre, Laurence; Faivre, L; Faivre; Roubertie, Agathe; Roubertie, A; Roubertie; Rivière, Jean-Baptiste; Rivière, JB; Rivière; Monaghan, Kristin G; Monaghan, KG; Monaghan; Wang, Kai; Wang, K; Wang; Davis, Erica E; Davis, EE; Davis; Katsanis, Nicholas; Katsanis, N; Katsanis; Kalscheuer, Vera M; Kalscheuer, VM; Kalscheuer; Wang, Edith H; Wang, EH; Wang; Metcalfe, Kay; Metcalfe, K; Metcalfe; Kleefstra, Tjitske; Kleefstra, T; Kleefstra; Innes, A Micheil; Innes, AM; Innes; Kitsiou-Tzeli, Sophia; Kitsiou-Tzeli, S; Kitsiou-Tzeli; Rosello, Monica; Rosello, M; Rosello; Keegan, Catherine E; Keegan, CE; Keegan; Lyon, Gholson J; Lyon, GJ; Lyon	Am J Hum Genet
26706064	The novel elicitor AsES triggers a defense response against Botrytis cinerea in Arabidopsis thaliana.	AsES (Acremonium strictum Elicitor and Subtilisin) is a novel extracellular elicitor protein produced by the avirulent isolate SS71 of the opportunist strawberry fungal pathogen A. strictum. Here we describe the activity of AsES in the plant-pathogen system Arabidopsis thaliana-Botrytis cinerea. We show that AsES renders A. thaliana plants resistant to the necrotrophic pathogen B. cinerea, both locally and systemically and the defense response observed is dose-dependent. Systemic, but not local resistance is dependent on the length of exposure to AsES. The germination of the spores in vitro was not inhibited by AsES, implying that protection to B. cinerea is due to the induction of the plant defenses. These results were further supported by the findings that AsES differentially affects mutants impaired in the response to salicylic acid, jasmonic acid and ethylene, suggesting that AsES triggers the defense response through these three signaling pathways.	2015 Dec	Hael-Conrad, V; Hael-Conrad, V; Hael-Conrad; Abou-Mansour, E; Abou-Mansour, E; Abou-Mansour; Díaz-Ricci, J-C; Díaz-Ricci, JC; Díaz-Ricci; Métraux, J-P; Métraux, JP; Métraux; Serrano, M; Serrano, M; Serrano	Plant Sci
26615219	Genome Analysis of Structure-Function Relationships in Respiratory Complex I, an Ancient Bioenergetic Enzyme.	Respiratory complex I (NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase) is a ubiquitous bioenergetic enzyme formed by over 40 subunits in eukaryotes and a minimum of 11 subunits in bacteria. Recently, crystal structures have greatly advanced our knowledge of complex I but have not clarified the details of its reaction with ubiquinone (Q). This reaction is essential for bioenergy production and takes place in a large cavity embedded within a conserved module that is homologous to the catalytic core of Ni-Fe hydrogenases. However, how a hydrogenase core has evolved into the protonmotive Q reductase module of complex I has remained unclear. This work has exploited the abundant genomic information that is currently available to deduce structure-function relationships in complex I that indicate the evolutionary steps of Q reactivity and its adaptation to natural Q substrates. The results provide answers to fundamental questions regarding various aspects of complex I reaction with Q and help re-defining the old concept that this reaction may involve two Q or inhibitor sites. The re-definition leads to a simplified classification of the plethora of complex I inhibitors while throwing a new light on the evolution of the enzyme function. 	2015 Nov	Degli Esposti, Mauro; Degli Esposti, M; Degli Esposti	Genome Biol Evol
26564044	Complete Genome Sequence of a Human-Invasive Salmonella enterica Serovar Typhimurium Strain of the Emerging Sequence Type 213 Harboring a Multidrug Resistance IncA/C Plasmid and a blaCMY-2-Carrying IncF Plasmid.	Salmonella enterica subsp. enterica serovar Typhimurium strain 33676 was isolated in Mexico City, Mexico, from a patient with a systemic infection, and its complete genome sequence was determined using PacBio single-molecule real-time technology. Strain 33676 harbors an IncF plasmid carrying the extended-spectrum cephalosporin gene blaCMY-2 and a multidrug resistance IncA/C plasmid. 	2015 Nov	Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva; Calva, Edmundo; Calva, E; Calva; Calva, Juan J; Calva, JJ; Calva; Wiesner, Magdalena; Wiesner, M; Wiesner; Fernández-Mora, Marcos; Fernández-Mora, M; Fernández-Mora; Puente, José L; Puente, JL; Puente; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa	Genome Announc
26507799	Chlamydiaceae Genomics Reveals Interspecies Admixture and the Recent Evolution of Chlamydia abortus Infecting Lower Mammalian Species and Humans.	Chlamydiaceae are obligate intracellular bacteria that cause a diversity of severe infections among humans and livestock on a global scale. Identification of new species since 1989 and emergence of zoonotic infections, including abortion in women, underscore the need for genome sequencing of multiple strains of each species to advance our knowledge of evolutionary dynamics across Chlamydiaceae. Here, we genome sequenced isolates from avian, lower mammalian and human hosts. Based on core gene phylogeny, five isolates previously classified as Chlamydia abortus were identified as members of Chlamydia psittaci and Chlamydia pecorum. Chlamydia abortus is the most recently emerged species and is a highly monomorphic group that lacks the conserved virulence-associated plasmid. Low-level recombination and evidence for adaptation to the placenta echo evolutionary processes seen in recently emerged, highly virulent niche-restricted pathogens, such as Bacillus anthracis. In contrast, gene flow occurred within C. psittaci and other Chlamydiaceae species. The C. psittaci strain RTH, isolated from a red-tailed hawk (Buteo jamaicensis), is an outlying strain with admixture of C. abortus, C. psittaci, and its own population markers. An average nucleotide identity of less than 94% compared with other Chlamydiaceae species suggests that RTH belongs to a new species intermediary between C. psittaci and C. abortus. Hawks, as scavengers and predators, have extensive opportunities to acquire multiple species in their intestinal tract. This could facilitate transformation and homologous recombination with the potential for new species emergence. Our findings indicate that incubator hosts such as birds-of-prey likely promote Chlamydiaceae evolution resulting in novel pathogenic lineages. 	2015 Oct	Joseph, Sandeep J; Joseph, SJ; Joseph; Marti, Hanna; Marti, H; Marti; Didelot, Xavier; Didelot, X; Didelot; Castillo-Ramirez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramirez, S; Castillo-Ramirez; Read, Timothy D; Read, TD; Read; Dean, Deborah; Dean, D; Dean	Genome Biol Evol
26211831	Novel players in the AP2-miR172 regulatory network for common bean nodulation.	The intricate regulatory network for floral organogenesis in plants that includes AP2/ERF, SPL and AGL transcription factors, miR172 and miR156 along with other components is well documented, though its complexity and size keep increasing. The miR172/AP2 node was recently proposed as essential regulator in the legume-rhizobia nitrogen-fixing symbiosis. Research from our group contributed to demonstrate the control of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) nodulation by miR172c/AP2-1, however no other components of such regulatory network have been reported. Here we propose AGLs as new protagonists in the regulation of common bean nodulation and discuss the relevance of future deeper analysis of the complex AP2 regulatory network for nodule organogenesis in legumes.	2015	Íñiguez, Luis P; Íñiguez, LP; Íñiguez; Nova-Franco, Bárbara; Nova-Franco, B; Nova-Franco; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	Plant Signal Behav
24601835	Key roles of microsymbiont amino acid metabolism in rhizobia-legume interactions.	Rhizobia are bacteria in the α-proteobacterial genera Rhizobium, Sinorhizobium, Mesorhizobium, Azorhizobium and Bradyrhizobium that reduce (fix) atmospheric nitrogen in symbiotic association with a compatible host plant. In free-living and/or symbiotically associated rhizobia, amino acids may, in addition to their incorporation into proteins, serve as carbon, nitrogen or sulfur sources, signals of cellular nitrogen status and precursors of important metabolites. Depending on the rhizobia-host plant combination, microsymbiont amino acid metabolism (biosynthesis, transport and/or degradation) is often crucial to the establishment and maintenance of an effective nitrogen-fixing symbiosis and is intimately interconnected with the metabolism of the plant. This review summarizes past findings and current research directions in rhizobial amino acid metabolism and evaluates the genetic, biochemical and genome expression studies from which these are derived. Specific sections deal with the regulation of rhizobial amino acid metabolism, amino acid transport, and finally the symbiotic roles of individual amino acids in different plant-rhizobia combinations. 	2015	Dunn, Michael Frederick; Dunn, MF; Dunn	Crit Rev Microbiol
26272377	Development of molecular tools to monitor conjugative transfer in rhizobia.	Evolution of bacterial populations has been extensively driven by horizontal transfer events. Conjugative plasmid transfer is considered the principal contributor to gene exchange among bacteria. Several conjugative and mobilizable plasmids have been identified in rhizobia, and two major molecular mechanisms that regulate their transfer have been described, under laboratory conditions. The knowledge of rhizobial plasmid transfer regulation in natural environments is very poor. In this work we developed molecular tools to easily monitor the conjugative plasmid transfer in rhizobia by flow cytometry (FC) or microscopy. 24 cassettes were constructed by combining a variety of promotors, fluorescent proteins and antibiotic resistance genes, and used to tag plasmids and chromosome of donor strains. We were able to detect plasmid transfer after conversion of non-fluorescent recipients into fluorescent transconjugants. Flow cytometry (FC) was optimized to count donor, recipient and transconjugant strains to determine conjugative transfer frequencies. Results were similar, when determined either by FC or by viable counts. Our constructions also allowed the visualization of transconjugants in crosses performed on bean roots. The tools presented here may also be used for other purposes, such as analysis of transcriptional fusions or single-cell tagging. Application of the system will allow the survey of how different environmental conditions or other regulators modulate plasmid transfer in rhizobia. 	2015 Oct	Tejerizo, Gonzalo Torres; Tejerizo, GT; Tejerizo; Bañuelos, Luis Alfredo; Bañuelos, LA; Bañuelos; Cervantes, Laura; Cervantes, L; Cervantes; Gaytán, Paul; Gaytán, P; Gaytán; Pistorio, Mariano; Pistorio, M; Pistorio; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom	J Microbiol Methods
27148569	Genome-wide variant analysis of simplex autism families with an integrative clinical-bioinformatics pipeline.	Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are a group of developmental disabilities that affect social interaction and communication and are characterized by repetitive behaviors. There is now a large body of evidence that suggests a complex role of genetics in ASDs, in which many different loci are involved. Although many current population-scale genomic studies have been demonstrably fruitful, these studies generally focus on analyzing a limited part of the genome or use a limited set of bioinformatics tools. These limitations preclude the analysis of genome-wide perturbations that may contribute to the development and severity of ASD-related phenotypes. To overcome these limitations, we have developed and utilized an integrative clinical and bioinformatics pipeline for generating a more complete and reliable set of genomic variants for downstream analyses. Our study focuses on the analysis of three simplex autism families consisting of one affected child, unaffected parents, and one unaffected sibling. All members were clinically evaluated and widely phenotyped. Genotyping arrays and whole-genome sequencing were performed on each member, and the resulting sequencing data were analyzed using a variety of available bioinformatics tools. We searched for rare variants of putative functional impact that were found to be segregating according to de novo, autosomal recessive, X-linked, mitochondrial, and compound heterozygote transmission models. The resulting candidate variants included three small heterozygous copy-number variations (CNVs), a rare heterozygous de novo nonsense mutation in MYBBP1A located within exon 1, and a novel de novo missense variant in LAMB3. Our work demonstrates how more comprehensive analyses that include rich clinical data and whole-genome sequencing data can generate reliable results for use in downstream investigations. 	2015 Oct	Jiménez-Barrón, Laura T; Jiménez-Barrón, LT; Jiménez-Barrón; O'Rawe, Jason A; O'Rawe, JA; O'Rawe; Wu, Yiyang; Wu, Y; Wu; Yoon, Margaret; Yoon, M; Yoon; Fang, Han; Fang, H; Fang; Iossifov, Ivan; Iossifov, I; Iossifov; Lyon, Gholson J; Lyon, GJ; Lyon	Cold Spring Harb Mol Case Stud
26094112	The functional landscape bound to the transcription factors of Escherichia coli K-12.	Motivated by the experimental evidences accumulated in the last ten years and based on information deposited in RegulonDB, literature look up, and sequence analysis, we analyze the repertoire of 304 DNA-binding Transcription factors (TFs) in Escherichia coli K-12. These regulators were grouped in 78 evolutionary families and are regulating almost half of the total genes in this bacterium. In structural terms, 60% of TFs are composed by two-domains, 30% are monodomain, and 10% three- and four-structural domains. As previously noticed, the most abundant DNA-binding domain corresponds to the winged helix-turn-helix, with few alternative DNA-binding structures, resembling the hypothesis of successful protein structures with the emergence of new ones at low scales. In summary, we identified and described the characteristics associated to the DNA-binding TF in E. coli K-12. We also identified twelve functional modules based on a co-regulated gene matrix. Finally, diverse regulons were predicted based on direct associations between the TFs and potential regulated genes. This analysis should increase our knowledge about the gene regulation in the bacterium E. coli K-12, and provide more additional clues for comprehensive modelling of transcriptional regulatory networks in other bacteria. 	2015 Oct	Pérez-Rueda, Ernesto; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda; Tenorio-Salgado, Silvia; Tenorio-Salgado, S; Tenorio-Salgado; Huerta-Saquero, Alejandro; Huerta-Saquero, A; Huerta-Saquero; Balderas-Martínez, Yalbi I; Balderas-Martínez, YI; Balderas-Martínez; Moreno-Hagelsieb, Gabriel; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb	Comput Biol Chem
26403281	Metassembler: merging and optimizing de novo genome assemblies.	Genome assembly projects typically run multiple algorithms in an attempt to find the single best assembly, although those assemblies often have complementary, if untapped, strengths and weaknesses. We present our metassembler algorithm that merges multiple assemblies of a genome into a single superior sequence. We apply it to the four genomes from the Assemblathon competitions and show it consistently and substantially improves the contiguity and quality of each assembly. We also develop guidelines for meta-assembly by systematically evaluating 120 permutations of merging the top 5 assemblies of the first Assemblathon competition. The software is open-source at http://metassembler.sourceforge.net . 	2015 Sep	Wences, Alejandro Hernandez; Wences, AH; Wences; Schatz, Michael C; Schatz, MC; Schatz	Genome Biol
26358599	Draft Genome Sequences of Klebsiella variicola Plant Isolates.	Three endophytic Klebsiella variicola isolates-T29A, 3, and 6A2, obtained from sugar cane stem, maize shoots, and banana leaves, respectively-were used for whole-genome sequencing. Here, we report the draft genome sequences of circular chromosomes and plasmids. The genomes contain plant colonization and cellulases genes. This study will help toward understanding the genomic basis of K. variicola interaction with plant hosts. 	2015 Sep	Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Silva-Sanchez, Jesús; Silva-Sanchez, J; Silva-Sanchez; Barrios, Humberto; Barrios, H; Barrios; Rodríguez-Medina, Nadia; Rodríguez-Medina, N; Rodríguez-Medina; Martínez-Barnetche, Jesús; Martínez-Barnetche, J; Martínez-Barnetche; Téllez-Sosa, Juan; Téllez-Sosa, J; Téllez-Sosa; Gómez-Barreto, Rosa Elena; Gómez-Barreto, RE; Gómez-Barreto; Garza-Ramos, Ulises; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos	Genome Announc
25862689	Bacterial membrane lipids: diversity in structures and pathways.	For many decades, Escherichia coli was the main model organism for the study of bacterial membrane lipids. The results obtained served as a blueprint for membrane lipid biochemistry, but it is clear now that there is no such thing as a typical bacterial membrane lipid composition. Different bacterial species display different membrane compositions and even the membrane composition of cells belonging to a single species is not constant, but depends on the environmental conditions to which the cells are exposed. Bacterial membranes present a large diversity of amphiphilic lipids, including the common phospholipids phosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylethanolamine and cardiolipin, the less frequent phospholipids phosphatidylcholine, and phosphatidylinositol and a variety of other membrane lipids, such as for example ornithine lipids, glycolipids, sphingolipids or hopanoids among others. In this review, we give an overview about the membrane lipid structures known in bacteria, the different metabolic pathways involved in their formation, and the distribution of membrane lipids and metabolic pathways across taxonomical groups. 	2016 Jan	Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	FEMS Microbiol Rev
25711932	Fatty acid-releasing activities in Sinorhizobium meliloti include unusual diacylglycerol lipase.	Phospholipids are well known for their membrane-forming properties and thereby delimit any cell from the exterior world. In addition, membrane phospholipids can act as precursors for signals and other biomolecules during their turnover. Little is known about phospholipid signalling, turnover and remodelling in bacteria. Recently, we showed that a FadD-deficient mutant of Sinorhizobium meliloti, unable to convert free fatty acids to their coenzyme A derivatives, accumulates free fatty acids during the stationary phase of growth. Enzymatic activities responsible for the generation of these free fatty acids were unknown in rhizobia. Searching the genome of S. meliloti, we identified a potential lysophospholipase (SMc04041) and two predicted patatin-like phospholipases A (SMc00930, SMc01003). Although SMc00930 as well as SMc01003 contribute to the release of free fatty acids in S. meliloti, neither one can use phospholipids as substrates. Here we show that SMc01003 converts diacylglycerol to monoacylglycerol and a fatty acid, and that monoacylglycerol can be further degraded by SMc01003 to another fatty acid and glycerol. A SMc01003-deficient mutant of S. meliloti transiently accumulates diacylglycerol, suggesting that SMc01003 also acts as diacylglycerol lipase (DglA) in its native background. Expression of the DglA lipase in Escherichia coli causes lysis of cells in stationary phase of growth.	2015 Sep	Sahonero-Canavesi, Diana X; Sahonero-Canavesi, DX; Sahonero-Canavesi; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Sandoval-Calderón, Mario; Sandoval-Calderón, M; Sandoval-Calderón; Lamsa, Anne; Lamsa, A; Lamsa; Pogliano, Kit; Pogliano, K; Pogliano; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	Environ Microbiol
26484261	Microarray analysis of Neosartorya fischeri using different carbon sources, petroleum asphaltenes and glucose-peptone.	Asphaltenes are considered as the most recalcitrant petroleum fraction and represent a big problem for the recovery, separation and processing of heavy oils and bitumens. Neosartorya fischeri is a saprophytic fungus that is able to grow using asphaltenes as the sole carbon source [1]. We performed transcription profiling using a custom designed microarray with the complete genome from N. fischeri NRRL 181 in order to identify genes related to the transformation of asphaltenes [1]. Data analysis was performed using the genArise software. Results showed that 287 genes were up-regulated and 118 were down-regulated. Here we describe experimental procedures and methods about our dataset (NCBI GEO accession number GSE68146) and describe the data analysis to identify different expression levels in N. fischeri using this recalcitrant carbon source. 	2015 Sep	Hernández-López, Edna L; Hernández-López, EL; Hernández-López; Ramírez-Puebla, Shamayim T; Ramírez-Puebla, ST; Ramírez-Puebla; Vazquez-Duhalt, Rafael; Vazquez-Duhalt, R; Vazquez-Duhalt	Genom Data
26297041	Rhizobium ecuadorense sp. nov., an indigenous N2-fixing symbiont of the Ecuadorian common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) genetic pool.	There are two major centres of genetic diversification of common bean (Phaseolus vilgaris L.), the Mesoamerican and the Andean, and the legume is capable of establishing nitrogen-fixing symbioses with several rhizobia; Rhizobium etli seems to be the dominant species in both centres. Another genetic pool of common bean, in Peru and Ecuador, is receiving increasing attention, and studies of microsymbionts from the region can help to increase our knowledge about coevolution of this symbiosis. We have previously reported several putative new lineages from this region and here present data indicating that strains belonging to one of them, PEL4, represent a novel species. Based on 16S rRNA gene sequence phylogeny, PEL4 strains are positioned in the Rhizobium phaseoli/R. etli/Rhizobium leguminosarum clade, but show unique properties in several morphological, physiological and biochemical analyses, as well as in BOX-PCR profiles ( < 75% similarity with related species). PEL4 strains also differed from related species based on multilocus sequence analysis of three housekeeping genes (glnII, gyrB and recA). Nucleotide identities of the three concatenated genes between PEL4 strains and related species ranged from 91.8 to 94.2%, being highest with Rhizobium fabae. DNA-DNA hybridization ( < 47% DNA relatedness) and average nucleotide identity values of the whole genomes ( < 90.2%) also supported the novel species status. The PEL4 strains were effective in nodulating and fixing N2 with common beans. The data supported the view that PEL4 strains represent a novel species, Rhizobium ecuadorense sp. nov. The type strain is CNPSo 671(T) ( = UMR 1450(T) = PIMAMPIRS I 5(T) = LMG 27578(T)).	2015 Sep	Ribeiro, Renan Augusto; Ribeiro, RA; Ribeiro; Martins, Talita Busulini; Martins, TB; Martins; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Marçon Delamuta, Jakeline Renata; Marçon Delamuta, JR; Marçon Delamuta; Rogel, Marco Antonio; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Hungria, Mariangela; Hungria, M; Hungria	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
26189661	Species in Wolbachia? Proposal for the designation of 'Candidatus Wolbachia bourtzisii', 'Candidatus Wolbachia onchocercicola', 'Candidatus Wolbachia blaxteri', 'Candidatus Wolbachia brugii', 'Candidatus Wolbachia taylori', 'Candidatus Wolbachia collembolicola' and 'Candidatus Wolbachia multihospitum' for the different species within Wolbachia supergroups.	Wolbachia are highly extended bacterial endosymbionts that infect arthropods and filarial nematodes and produce contrasting phenotypes on their hosts. Wolbachia taxonomy has been understudied. Currently, Wolbachia strains are classified into phylogenetic supergroups. Here we applied phylogenomic analyses to study Wolbachia evolutionary relationships and examined metrics derived from their genome sequences such as average nucleotide identity (ANI), in silico DNA-DNA hybridization (DDH), G+C content, and synteny to shed light on the taxonomy of these bacteria. Draft genome sequences of strains wDacA and wDacB obtained from the carmine cochineal insect Dactylopius coccus were included. Although all analyses indicated that each Wolbachia supergroup represents a distinct evolutionary lineage, we found that some of the analyzed supergroups showed enough internal heterogeneity to be considered as assemblages of more than one species. Thus, supergroups would represent supraspecific groupings. Consequently, Wolbachia pipientis nomen species would apply only to strains of supergroup B and we propose the designation of 'Candidatus Wolbachia bourtzisii', 'Candidatus Wolbachia onchocercicola', 'Candidatus Wolbachia blaxterii', 'Candidatus Wolbachia brugii', 'Candidatus Wolbachia taylorii', 'Candidatus Wolbachia collembolicola' and 'Candidatus Wolbachia multihospitis' for other supergroups. 	2015 Sep	Ramírez-Puebla, Shamayim T; Ramírez-Puebla, ST; Ramírez-Puebla; Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis E; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Vera-Ponce de León, Arturo; Vera-Ponce de León, A; Vera-Ponce de León; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Delaye, Luis; Delaye, L; Delaye; Martínez, Julio; Martínez, J; Martínez; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
26271664	Genetic and biochemical characterization of arginine biosynthesis in Sinorhizobium meliloti 1021.	L-Ornithine production in the alfalfa microsymbiont Sinorhizobium meliloti occurs as an intermediate step in arginine biosynthesis. Ornithine is required for effective symbiosis but its synthesis in S. meliloti has been little studied. Unlike most bacteria, S. meliloti 1021 is annotated as encoding two enzymes producing ornithine: N-acetylornithine (NAO) deacetylase (ArgE) hydrolyses NAO to acetate and ornithine, and glutamate N-acetyltransferase (ArgJ) transacetylates l-glutamate with the acetyl group from NAO, forming ornithine and N-acetylglutamate (NAG). NAG is the substrate for the second step of arginine biosynthesis catalysed by NAG kinase (ArgB). Inactivation of argB in strain 1021 resulted in arginine auxotrophy. The activity of purified ArgB was significantly inhibited by arginine but not by ornithine. The purified ArgJ was highly active in NAO deacetylation/glutamate transacetylation and was significantly inhibited by ornithine but not by arginine. The purified ArgE protein (with a 6His-Sumo affinity tag) was also active in deacetylating NAO. argE and argJ single mutants, and an argEJ double mutant, are arginine prototrophs. Extracts of the double mutant contained aminoacylase (Ama) activity that deacetylated NAO to form ornithine. The purified products of three candidate ama genes (smc00682 (hipO1), smc02256 (hipO2) and smb21279) all possessed NAO deacetylase activity. hipO1 and hipO2, but not smb21279, expressed in trans functionally complemented an Escherichia coli ΔargE : : Km mutant. We conclude that Ama activity accounts for the arginine prototrophy of the argEJ mutant. Transcriptional assays of argB, argE and argJ, fused to a promoterless gusA gene, showed that their expression was not significantly affected by exogenous arginine or ornithine.	2015 Aug	Hernández, Victor M; Hernández, VM; Hernández; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Hernández-Lucas, Ismael; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Vázquez, Alejandra; Vázquez, A; Vázquez; Ortíz-Ortíz, Catalina; Ortíz-Ortíz, C; Ortíz-Ortíz; Díaz, Rafael; Díaz, R; Díaz; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn	Microbiology (Reading)
26284103	Responses of symbiotic nitrogen-fixing common bean to aluminum toxicity and delineation of nodule responsive microRNAs.	Aluminum (Al) toxicity is widespread in acidic soils where the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris), the most important legume for human consumption, is produced and it is a limiting factor for crop production and symbiotic nitrogen fixation. We characterized the nodule responses of common bean plants inoculated with Rhizobioum tropici CIAT899 and the root responses of nitrate-fertilized plants exposed to excess Al in low pH, for long or short periods. A 43-50% reduction in nitrogenase activity indicates that Al toxicity (Alt) highly affected nitrogen fixation in common bean. Bean roots and nodules showed characteristic symptoms for Alt. In mature nodules Al accumulation and lipoperoxidation were observed in the infected zone, while callose deposition and cell death occurred mainly in the nodule cortex. Regulatory mechanisms of plant responses to metal toxicity involve microRNAs (miRNAs) along other regulators. Using a miRNA-macroarray hybridization approach we identified 28 (14 up-regulated) Alt nodule-responsive miRNAs. We validated (quantitative reverse transcriptase-PCR) the expression of eight nodule responsive miRNAs in roots and in nodules exposed to high Al for long or short periods. The inverse correlation between the target and miRNA expression ratio (stress:control) was observed in every case. Generally, miRNAs showed a higher earlier response in roots than in nodules. Some of the common bean Alt-responsive miRNAs identified has also been reported as differentially expressed in other plant species subjected to similar stress condition. miRNA/target nodes analyzed in this work are known to be involved in relevant signaling pathways, thus we propose that the participation of miR164/NAC1 (NAM/ATAF/CUC transcription factor) and miR393/TIR1 (TRANSPORT INHIBITOR RESPONSE 1-like protein) in auxin and of miR170/SCL (SCARECROW-like protein transcription factor) in gibberellin signaling is relevant for common bean response/adaptation to Al stress. Our data provide a foundation for evaluating the individual roles of miRNAs in the response of common bean nodules to Alt. 	2015	Mendoza-Soto, Ana B; Mendoza-Soto, AB; Mendoza-Soto; Naya, Loreto; Naya, L; Naya; Leija, Alfonso; Leija, A; Leija; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	Front Plant Sci
26316636	Complete Genome Sequence of Paenibacillus larvae MEX14, Isolated from Honey Bee Larvae from the Xochimilco Quarter in Mexico City.	Paenibacillus larvae strain MEX14 is a facultative anaerobic endospore-forming bacterium that infects Apis mellifera larvae. Strain MEX14 was isolated from domestic bee larvae collected in a backyard in Mexico City. The estimated genome size was determined to be 4.18 Mb, and it harbors 4,806 protein coding genes (CDSs). 	2015 Aug	Peréz de la Rosa, D; Peréz de la Rosa, D; Peréz de la Rosa; Pérez de la Rosa, J J; Pérez de la Rosa, JJ; Pérez de la Rosa; Cossio-Bayugar, R; Cossio-Bayugar, R; Cossio-Bayugar; Miranda-Miranda, E; Miranda-Miranda, E; Miranda-Miranda; Lozano, L; Lozano, L; Lozano; Bravo-Díaz, M A; Bravo-Díaz, MA; Bravo-Díaz; Rocha-Martínez, M K; Rocha-Martínez, MK; Rocha-Martínez; Sachman-Ruiz, B; Sachman-Ruiz, B; Sachman-Ruiz	Genome Announc
26089426	Complete Genome Sequencing of a Multidrug-Resistant and Human-Invasive Salmonella enterica Serovar Typhimurium Strain of the Emerging Sequence Type 213 Genotype.	Salmonella enterica subsp. enterica serovar Typhimurium strain YU39 was isolated in 2005 in the state of Yucatán, Mexico, from a human systemic infection. The YU39 strain is representative of the multidrug-resistant emergent sequence type 213 (ST213) genotype. The YU39 complete genome is composed of a chromosome and seven plasmids. 	2015 Jun	Calva, Edmundo; Calva, E; Calva; Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva; Zaidi, Mussaret B; Zaidi, MB; Zaidi; Sanchez-Flores, Alejandro; Sanchez-Flores, A; Sanchez-Flores; Estrada, Karel; Estrada, K; Estrada; Silva, Genivaldo G Z; Silva, GG; Silva; Soto-Jiménez, Luz M; Soto-Jiménez, LM; Soto-Jiménez; Wiesner, Magdalena; Wiesner, M; Wiesner; Fernández-Mora, Marcos; Fernández-Mora, M; Fernández-Mora; Edwards, Robert A; Edwards, RA; Edwards; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa	Genome Announc
25925947	OlsG (Sinac_1600) Is an Ornithine Lipid N-Methyltransferase from the Planctomycete Singulisphaera acidiphila.	Ornithine lipids (OLs) are phosphorus-free membrane lipids widespread in bacteria but absent from archaea and eukaryotes. In addition to the unmodified OLs, a variety of OL derivatives hydroxylated in different structural positions has been reported. Recently, methylated derivatives of OLs were described in several planctomycetes isolated from a peat bog in Northern Russia, although the gene/enzyme responsible for the N-methylation of OL remained obscure. Here we identify and characterize the OL N-methyltransferase OlsG (Sinac_1600) from the planctomycete Singulisphaera acidiphila. When OlsG is co-expressed with the OL synthase OlsF in Escherichia coli, methylated OL derivatives are formed. An in vitro characterization shows that OlsG is responsible for the 3-fold methylation of the terminal δ-nitrogen of OL. Methylation is dependent on the presence of the detergent Triton X-100 and the methyldonor S-adenosylmethionine. 	2015 Jun	Escobedo-Hinojosa, Wendy Itzel; Escobedo-Hinojosa, WI; Escobedo-Hinojosa; Vences-Guzmán, Miguel Ángel; Vences-Guzmán, MÁ; Vences-Guzmán; Schubotz, Florence; Schubotz, F; Schubotz; Sandoval-Calderón, Mario; Sandoval-Calderón, M; Sandoval-Calderón; Summons, Roger E; Summons, RE; Summons; López-Lara, Isabel María; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	J Biol Chem
25660942	Taxonomy of rhizobia and agrobacteria from the Rhizobiaceae family in light of genomics.	Phylogenomic analyses showed two major superclades within the family Rhizobiaceae that corresponded to the Rhizobium/Agrobacterium and Shinella/Ensifer groups. Within the Rhizobium/Agrobacterium group, four highly supported clades were evident that could correspond to distinct genera. The Shinella/Ensifer group encompassed not only the genera Shinella and Ensifer but also a separate clade containing the type strain of Rhizobium giardinii. Ensifer adhaerens (Casida A(T)) was an outlier within its group, separated from the rest of the Ensifer strains. The phylogenomic analysis presented provided support for the revival of Allorhizobium as a bona fide genus within the Rhizobiaceae, the distinctiveness of Agrobacterium and the recently proposed Neorhizobium genus, and suggested that R. giardinii may be transferred to a novel genus. Genomics has provided data for defining bacterial-species limits from estimates of average nucleotide identity (ANI) and in silico DNA-DNA hybridization (DDH). ANI reference values are becoming the gold standard in rhizobial taxonomy and are being used to recognize novel rhizobial lineages and species that seem to be biologically coherent, as shown in this study. 	2015 Jun	Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis E; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora; Martínez-Romero, Julio; Martínez-Romero, J; Martínez-Romero; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
26111345	Calcitriol increases Dicer expression and modifies the microRNAs signature in SiHa cervical cancer cells.	MicroRNAs play important roles in cancer biology. Calcitriol, the hormonal form of vitamin D3, regulates microRNAs expression in tumor cells. In the present study we asked if calcitriol would modify some of the components of the microRNA processing machinery, namely, Drosha and Dicer, in calcitriol-responsive cervical cancer cells. We found that calcitriol treatment did not affect Drosha mRNA; however, it significantly increased Dicer mRNA and protein expression in VDR-positive SiHa and HeLa cells. In VDR-negative C33-A cells, calcitriol had no effect on Dicer mRNA. We also found a vitamin D response element in Dicer promoter that interacts in vitro to vitamin D and retinoid X receptors. To explore the biological plausibility of these results, we asked if calcitriol alters the microRNA expression profile in SiHa cells. Our results revealed that calcitriol regulates the expression of a subset of microRNAs with potential regulatory functions in cancer pathways, such as miR-22, miR-296-3p, and miR-498, which exert tumor-suppressive effects. In summary, the data indicate that in SiHa cells, calcitriol stimulates the expression of Dicer possibly through the vitamin D response element located in its promoter. This may explain the calcitriol-dependent modulation of microRNAs whose target mRNAs are related to anticancer pathways, further adding to the various anticancer mechanisms of calcitriol. 	2015 Aug	González-Duarte, Ramiro José; González-Duarte, RJ; González-Duarte; Cázares-Ordoñez, Verna; Cázares-Ordoñez, V; Cázares-Ordoñez; Romero-Córdoba, Sandra; Romero-Córdoba, S; Romero-Córdoba; Díaz, Lorenza; Díaz, L; Díaz; Ortíz, Víctor; Ortíz, V; Ortíz; Freyre-González, Julio Augusto; Freyre-González, JA; Freyre-González; Hidalgo-Miranda, Alfredo; Hidalgo-Miranda, A; Hidalgo-Miranda; Larrea, Fernando; Larrea, F; Larrea; Avila, Euclides; Avila, E; Avila	Biochem Cell Biol
25040623	Discovery of a bifunctional acyltransferase responsible for ornithine lipid synthesis in Serratia proteamaculans.	Ornithine lipids (OLs) are phosphorus-free membrane lipids that can be formed by many bacteria but that are absent from archaea and eukaryotes. A function for OLs in stress conditions and in host-bacteria interactions has been shown in some bacteria. Some bacterial species have been described that can form OLs, but lack the known genes (olsBA) involved in its biosynthesis, which implied the existence of a second pathway. Here we describe the bifunctional protein OlsF from Serratia proteamaculans involved in OL formation. Expression of OlsF and its homologue from Flavobacterium johnsoniae in Escherichia coli causes OL formation. Deletion of OlsF in S. proteamaculans caused the absence of OL formation. Homologues of OlsF are widely distributed among γ-, δ- and ε-Proteobacteria and in the Cytophaga-Flavobacterium-Bacteroidetes group of bacteria, including several well-studied pathogens for which the presence of OLs has not been suspected, such as for example Vibrio cholerae and Klebsiella pneumonia. Using genomic data, we predict that about 50% of bacterial species can form OLs.	2015 May	Vences-Guzmán, Miguel Ángel; Vences-Guzmán, MÁ; Vences-Guzmán; Guan, Ziqiang; Guan, Z; Guan; Escobedo-Hinojosa, Wendy Itzel; Escobedo-Hinojosa, WI; Escobedo-Hinojosa; Bermúdez-Barrientos, José Roberto; Bermúdez-Barrientos, JR; Bermúdez-Barrientos; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	Environ Microbiol
25739700	The micro-RNA72c-APETALA2-1 node as a key regulator of the common bean-Rhizobium etli nitrogen fixation symbiosis.	Micro-RNAs are recognized as important posttranscriptional regulators in plants. The relevance of micro-RNAs as regulators of the legume-rhizobia nitrogen-fixing symbiosis is emerging. The objective of this work was to functionally characterize the role of micro-RNA172 (miR172) and its conserved target APETALA2 (AP2) transcription factor in the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris)-Rhizobium etli symbiosis. Our expression analysis revealed that mature miR172c increased upon rhizobial infection and continued increasing during nodule development, reaching its maximum in mature nodules and decaying in senescent nodules. The expression of AP2-1 target showed a negative correlation with miR172c expression. A drastic decrease in miR172c and high AP2-1 mRNA levels were observed in ineffective nodules. Phenotypic analysis of composite bean plants with transgenic roots overexpressing miR172c or a mutated AP2-1 insensitive to miR172c cleavage demonstrated the pivotal regulatory role of the miR172 node in the common bean-rhizobia symbiosis. Increased miR172 resulted in improved root growth, increased rhizobial infection, increased expression of early nodulation and autoregulation of nodulation genes, and improved nodulation and nitrogen fixation. In addition, these plants showed decreased sensitivity to nitrate inhibition of nodulation. Through transcriptome analysis, we identified 114 common bean genes that coexpressed with AP2-1 and proposed these as being targets for transcriptional activation by AP2-1. Several of these genes are related to nodule senescence, and we propose that they have to be silenced, through miR172c-induced AP2-1 cleavage, in active mature nodules. Our work sets the basis for exploring the miR172-mediated improvement of symbiotic nitrogen fixation in common bean, the most important grain legume for human consumption.	2015 May	Nova-Franco, Bárbara; Nova-Franco, B; Nova-Franco; Íñiguez, Luis P; Íñiguez, LP; Íñiguez; Valdés-López, Oswaldo; Valdés-López, O; Valdés-López; Alvarado-Affantranger, Xochitl; Alvarado-Affantranger, X; Alvarado-Affantranger; Leija, Alfonso; Leija, A; Leija; Fuentes, Sara I; Fuentes, SI; Fuentes; Ramírez, Mario; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Paul, Sujay; Paul, S; Paul; Reyes, José L; Reyes, JL; Reyes; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	Plant Physiol
25853342	Using a sequential regimen to eliminate bacteria at sublethal antibiotic dosages.	We need to find ways of enhancing the potency of existing antibiotics, and, with this in mind, we begin with an unusual question: how low can antibiotic dosages be and yet bacterial clearance still be observed? Seeking to optimise the simultaneous use of two antibiotics, we use the minimal dose at which clearance is observed in an in vitro experimental model of antibiotic treatment as a criterion to distinguish the best and worst treatments of a bacterium, Escherichia coli. Our aim is to compare a combination treatment consisting of two synergistic antibiotics to so-called sequential treatments in which the choice of antibiotic to administer can change with each round of treatment. Using mathematical predictions validated by the E. coli treatment model, we show that clearance of the bacterium can be achieved using sequential treatments at antibiotic dosages so low that the equivalent two-drug combination treatments are ineffective. Seeking to treat the bacterium in testing circumstances, we purposefully study an E. coli strain that has a multidrug pump encoded in its chromosome that effluxes both antibiotics. Genomic amplifications that increase the number of pumps expressed per cell can cause the failure of high-dose combination treatments, yet, as we show, sequentially treated populations can still collapse. However, dual resistance due to the pump means that the antibiotics must be carefully deployed and not all sublethal sequential treatments succeed. A screen of 136 96-h-long sequential treatments determined five of these that could clear the bacterium at sublethal dosages in all replicate populations, even though none had done so by 24 h. These successes can be attributed to a collateral sensitivity whereby cross-resistance due to the duplicated pump proves insufficient to stop a reduction in E. coli growth rate following drug exchanges, a reduction that proves large enough for appropriately chosen drug switches to clear the bacterium. 	2015 Apr	Fuentes-Hernandez, Ayari; Fuentes-Hernandez, A; Fuentes-Hernandez; Plucain, Jessica; Plucain, J; Plucain; Gori, Fabio; Gori, F; Gori; Pena-Miller, Rafael; Pena-Miller, R; Pena-Miller; Reding, Carlos; Reding, C; Reding; Jansen, Gunther; Jansen, G; Jansen; Schulenburg, Hinrich; Schulenburg, H; Schulenburg; Gudelj, Ivana; Gudelj, I; Gudelj; Beardmore, Robert; Beardmore, R; Beardmore	PLoS Biol
25683745	Mathematical modeling of the apo and holo transcriptional regulation in Escherichia coli.	Transcription factors (TFs) modulate gene expression as a consequence of internal or exogenous changes in cell signaling. TFs can bind to DNA either with their effector bound (holo conformation), or as free proteins (apo conformation). With the aim of contributing to the understanding of the evolutionary fitness and organizational principles behind the different TF conformations, we inquire into the origins of these conformational differences by analyzing these two TF conformations from the perspective of Savageau's demand theory. For the control of a gene whose function is in high demand, we found that evolutionary constraints are responsible for activator TFs binding to DNA mainly in holo conformation whereas apo activation is under-represented. The mathematically controlled comparison of the apo and holo conformations reveals formal and evolutionary arguments in favor of this TF control asymmetry, which suggests that evolution favors holo activation under environmental conditions commonly found by E. coli in the human digestive tract. Specifically, the sensibility analysis performed for the holo conformation, in the positive mode of regulation, shows that the wild-type is more robust for situations where realizable changes in the model's parameters favored a better performance under non-stressful environmental conditions commonly found by E. coli in the human digestive tract. By contrast, the positive apo conformation is better adapted to adverse situations. On the other hand, the sensibility analysis performed for the negative mode of regulation showing none of the TF active conformations presents an advantage. 	2015 Apr	Alvarez-Vasquez, Fernando J; Alvarez-Vasquez, FJ; Alvarez-Vasquez; Freyre-González, Julio A; Freyre-González, JA; Freyre-González; Balderas-Martínez, Yalbi I; Balderas-Martínez, YI; Balderas-Martínez; Delgado-Carrillo, Mónica I; Delgado-Carrillo, MI; Delgado-Carrillo; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Mol Biosyst
25744996	Burkholderia cenocepacia Strain CEIB S5-1, a Rhizosphere-Inhabiting Bacterium with Potential in Bioremediation.	Burkholderia cenocepacia is considered an opportunistic pathogen from humans and may cause disease in plants. A bioprospection from a plaguicide-contaminated agricultural field in Mexico identified several methyl parathion-degrading bacteria. Here, we report the draft genome sequence of B. cenocepacia strain CEIB S5-1, which gave us clues into ecological biodiversity. 	2015 Mar	Martínez-Ocampo, Fernando; Martínez-Ocampo, F; Martínez-Ocampo; Lozano-Aguirre Beltrán, Luis Fernando; Lozano-Aguirre Beltrán, LF; Lozano-Aguirre Beltrán; Hernández-Mendoza, Armando; Hernández-Mendoza, A; Hernández-Mendoza; Rojas-Espinoza, Luis Enrique; Rojas-Espinoza, LE; Rojas-Espinoza; Popoca-Ursino, Elida Carolina; Popoca-Ursino, EC; Popoca-Ursino; Ortiz-Hernández, María Laura; Ortiz-Hernández, ML; Ortiz-Hernández; Sánchez-Salinas, Enrique; Sánchez-Salinas, E; Sánchez-Salinas; Ramos Quintana, Fernando; Ramos Quintana, F; Ramos Quintana; Dantán-González, Edgar; Dantán-González, E; Dantán-González	Genome Announc
25780762	Population structure of Neisseria gonorrhoeae based on whole genome data and its relationship with antibiotic resistance.	Neisseria gonorrhoeae is the causative agent of gonorrhea, a sexually transmitted infection (STI) of major importance. As a result of antibiotic resistance, there are now limited options for treating patients. We collected draft genome sequence data and associated metadata data on 76 N. gonorrhoeae strains from around the globe and searched for known determinants of antibiotics resistance within the strains. The population structure and evolutionary forces within the pathogen population were analyzed. Our results indicated a cosmopolitan gonoccocal population mainly made up of five subgroups. The estimated ratio of recombination to mutation (r/m = 2.2) from our data set indicates an appreciable level of recombination occurring in the population. Strains with resistance phenotypes to more recent antibiotics (azithromycin and cefixime) were mostly found in two of the five population subgroups. 	2015	Ezewudo, Matthew N; Ezewudo, MN; Ezewudo; Joseph, Sandeep J; Joseph, SJ; Joseph; Castillo-Ramirez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramirez, S; Castillo-Ramirez; Dean, Deborah; Dean, D; Dean; Del Rio, Carlos; Del Rio, C; Del Rio; Didelot, Xavier; Didelot, X; Didelot; Dillon, Jo-Anne; Dillon, JA; Dillon; Selden, Richard F; Selden, RF; Selden; Shafer, William M; Shafer, WM; Shafer; Turingan, Rosemary S; Turingan, RS; Turingan; Unemo, Magnus; Unemo, M; Unemo; Read, Timothy D; Read, TD; Read	PeerJ
25688108	Molecular evolution of cytochrome bd oxidases across proteobacterial genomes.	This work is aimed to resolve the complex molecular evolution of cytochrome bd ubiquinol oxidase, a nearly ubiquitous bacterial enzyme that is involved in redox balance and bioenergetics. Previous studies have created an unclear picture of bd oxidases phylogenesis without considering the existence of diverse types of bd oxidases. Integrated approaches of genomic and protein analysis focused on proteobacteria have generated a molecular classification of diverse types of bd oxidases, which produces a new scenario for interpreting their evolution. A duplication of the original gene cluster of bd oxidase might have occurred in the ancestors of extant α-proteobacteria of the Rhodospirillales order, such as Acidocella, from which the bd-I type of the oxidase might have diffused to other proteobacterial lineages. In contrast, the Cyanide-Insensitive Oxidase type may have differentiated into recognizable subtypes after another gene cluster duplication. These subtypes are widespread in the genomes of α-, β-, and γ-proteobacteria, with occasional instances of lateral gene transfer. In resolving the evolutionary pattern of proteobacterial bd oxidases, this work sheds new light on the basal taxa of α-proteobacteria from which the γ-proteobacterial lineage probably emerged. 	2015 Feb	Degli Esposti, Mauro; Degli Esposti, M; Degli Esposti; Rosas-Pérez, Tania; Rosas-Pérez, T; Rosas-Pérez; Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis Eduardo; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Bolaños, Luis Manuel; Bolaños, LM; Bolaños; Rosenblueth, Monica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Genome Biol Evol
25644116	Mutations in an antisense RNA, involved in the replication control of a repABC plasmid, that disrupt plasmid incompatibility and mediate plasmid speciation.	The maintenance of large plasmid in a wide variety of alpha-proteobacteria depends on the repABC replication/segregation unit. The intergenic repB-repC region of these plasmids encodes a countertranscribed RNA (ctRNA) that modulates the transcription/translation rate of RepC, the initiator protein. The ctRNA acts as a strong incompatibility factor when expressed in trans. We followed a site directed mutagenesis approach to map those sequences of the ctRNA that are required for plasmid incompatibility and for plasmid replication control. We found that the first three nucleotides of the 5'-end of the ctRNA are essential for interactions with its target RNA. We also found that stretches of 4-5 nucleotides of non-complementarity within the first 10 nucleotides of the left arm of the ctRNA and the target RNA are sufficient to avoid plasmid incompatibility. Additionally, miniplasmid derivatives expressing ctRNAs with mutations in the 5' end or small deletions in the ctRNA are capable of controlling their own replication and coexisting with the parental plasmid. We suggest that a mechanism that could have a crucial role in the speciation process of repABC plasmids is to accumulate enough changes in this small region of the ctRNA gene to disrupt heteroduplex formation between the target RNA of one plasmid and the ctRNA of the other. Plasmids carrying these changes will not have defects in their maintenance. 	2015 Mar	Rivera-Urbalejo, América; Rivera-Urbalejo, A; Rivera-Urbalejo; Pérez-Oseguera, Ángeles; Pérez-Oseguera, Á; Pérez-Oseguera; Carreón-Rodríguez, Ofelia E; Carreón-Rodríguez, OE; Carreón-Rodríguez; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	Plasmid
25764543	Arthropod-Spiroplasma relationship in the genomic era.	The genus Spiroplasma comprises wall-less, low-GC bacteria that establish pathogenic, mutualistic and commensal symbiotic associations with arthropods and plants. This review focuses on the symbiotic relationships between Spiroplasma bacteria and arthropod hosts in the context of the available genomic sequences. Spiroplasma genomes are reduced and some contain highly repetitive plectrovirus-related sequences. Spiroplasma's diversity in viral invasion susceptibility, virulence factors, substrate utilization, genome dynamics and symbiotic associations with arthropods make this bacterial genus a biological model that provides insights about the evolutionary traits that shape bacterial symbiotic relationships with eukaryotes. 	2015 Feb	Bolaños, Luis M; Bolaños, LM; Bolaños; Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis E; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	FEMS Microbiol Ecol
25549879	Different sensitivity levels to norspermidine on biofilm formation in clinical and commensal Staphylococcus epidermidis strains.	Biofilm formation on medical and surgical devices is the main virulence factor of Staphylococcus epidermidis. A recent study has shown that norspermidine inhibits and disassembles the biofilm in the wild-type Bacillus subtilis NCBI3610 strain. In this study, the effect of norspermidine on S. epidermidis biofilm formation of clinical or commensal strains was tested. Biofilm producing strains of S. epidermidis were isolated from healthy skin (HS; n = 3), healthy conjunctiva (HC; n = 9) and ocular infection (OI; n = 19). All strains were treated with different concentrations of norspermidine, spermidine, putrescine, and cadaverine (1, 10, 25, 50 and 100 μM), and the biofilm formation was tested on microtiter plate. Besides, cell-free supernatants of S. epidermidis growth at 4 h and 40 h were analyzed by gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry (GC-MS) to detect norspermidine. Results showed that norspermidine at 25 μM and 100 μM prevented the biofilm formation in 45.16% (14/31) and 16.13% (5/31), respectively; only in one isolate from OI, norspermidine did not have effect. Other polyamines as spermidine, putrescine and cadaverine did not have effect on the biofilm formation of the strains tested. Norspermidine was also capable to disassemble a biofilm already formed. Norspermidine was detected in the 40 h cell-free supernatant of S. epidermidis by GC-MS. Norspermidine inhibited the biofilm development of S. epidermidis on the surface of contact lens. In this work, it was demonstrated that S. epidermidis produces and releases norspermidine causing an inhibitory effect on biofilm formation. Moreover, this is the first time showing that clinical S. epidermidis strains have different sensitivity to norspermidine, which suggest that the composition and structure of the biofilms is varied. We propose that norspermidine could potentially be used in the pre-treating of medical and surgical devices to inhibit the biofilm formation. 	2015 Feb	Ramón-Peréz, Miriam L; Ramón-Peréz, ML; Ramón-Peréz; Díaz-Cedillo, Francisco; Díaz-Cedillo, F; Díaz-Cedillo; Contreras-Rodríguez, Araceli; Contreras-Rodríguez, A; Contreras-Rodríguez; Betanzos-Cabrera, Gabriel; Betanzos-Cabrera, G; Betanzos-Cabrera; Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta; Rodríguez-Martínez, Sandra; Rodríguez-Martínez, S; Rodríguez-Martínez; Cancino-Diaz, Mario E; Cancino-Diaz, ME; Cancino-Diaz; Jan-Roblero, Janet; Jan-Roblero, J; Jan-Roblero; Cancino Diaz, Juan C; Cancino Diaz, JC; Cancino Diaz	Microb Pathog
25642223	Genes encoding conserved hypothetical proteins localized in the conjugative transfer region of plasmid pRet42a from Rhizobium etli CFN42 participate in modulating transfer and affect conjugation from different donors.	Among sequenced genomes, it is common to find a high proportion of genes encoding proteins that cannot be assigned a known function. In bacterial genomes, genes related to a similar function are often located in contiguous regions. The presence of genes encoding conserved hypothetical proteins (chp) in such a region may suggest that they are related to that particular function. Plasmid pRet42a from Rhizobium etli CFN42 is a conjugative plasmid containing a segment of approximately 30 Kb encoding genes involved in conjugative transfer. In addition to genes responsible for Dtr (DNA transfer and replication), Mpf (Mating pair formation) and regulation, it has two chp-encoding genes (RHE_PA00163 and RHE_PA00164) and a transcriptional regulator (RHE_PA00165). RHE_PA00163 encodes an uncharacterized protein conserved in bacteria that presents a COG4634 conserved domain, and RHE_PA00164 encodes an uncharacterized conserved protein with a DUF433 domain of unknown function. RHE_PA00165 presents a HTH_XRE domain, characteristic of DNA-binding proteins belonging to the xenobiotic response element family of transcriptional regulators. Interestingly, genes similar to these are also present in transfer regions of plasmids from other bacteria. To determine if these genes participate in conjugative transfer, we mutagenized them and analyzed their conjugative phenotype. A mutant in RHE_PA00163 showed a slight (10 times) but reproducible increase in transfer frequency from Rhizobium donors, while mutants in RHE_PA00164 and RHE_PA00165 lost their ability to transfer the plasmid from some Agrobacterium donors. Our results indicate that the chp-encoding genes located among conjugation genes are indeed related to this function. However, the participation of RHE_PA00164 and RHE_PA00165 is only revealed under very specific circumstances, and is not perceived when the plasmid is transferred from the original host. RHE_PA00163 seems to be a fine-tuning modulator for conjugative transfer. 	2014	López-Fuentes, Eunice; López-Fuentes, E; López-Fuentes; Torres-Tejerizo, Gonzalo; Torres-Tejerizo, G; Torres-Tejerizo; Cervantes, Laura; Cervantes, L; Cervantes; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom	Front Microbiol
25610432	Evolution of small prokaryotic genomes.	As revealed by genome sequencing, the biology of prokaryotes with reduced genomes is strikingly diverse. These include free-living prokaryotes with ∼800 genes as well as endosymbiotic bacteria with as few as ∼140 genes. Comparative genomics is revealing the evolutionary mechanisms that led to these small genomes. In the case of free-living prokaryotes, natural selection directly favored genome reduction, while in the case of endosymbiotic prokaryotes neutral processes played a more prominent role. However, new experimental data suggest that selective processes may be at operation as well for endosymbiotic prokaryotes at least during the first stages of genome reduction. Endosymbiotic prokaryotes have evolved diverse strategies for living with reduced gene sets inside a host-defined medium. These include utilization of host-encoded functions (some of them coded by genes acquired by gene transfer from the endosymbiont and/or other bacteria); metabolic complementation between co-symbionts; and forming consortiums with other bacteria within the host. Recent genome sequencing projects of intracellular mutualistic bacteria showed that previously believed universal evolutionary trends like reduced G+C content and conservation of genome synteny are not always present in highly reduced genomes. Finally, the simplified molecular machinery of some of these organisms with small genomes may be used to aid in the design of artificial minimal cells. Here we review recent genomic discoveries of the biology of prokaryotes endowed with small gene sets and discuss the evolutionary mechanisms that have been proposed to explain their peculiar nature. 	2014	Martínez-Cano, David J; Martínez-Cano, DJ; Martínez-Cano; Reyes-Prieto, Mariana; Reyes-Prieto, M; Reyes-Prieto; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Partida-Martínez, Laila P; Partida-Martínez, LP; Partida-Martínez; Latorre, Amparo; Latorre, A; Latorre; Moya, Andrés; Moya, A; Moya; Delaye, Luis; Delaye, L; Delaye	Front Microbiol
25440551	Characterization of the bacterial biodiversity in Pico cheese (an artisanal Azorean food).	This work presents the first study on the bacterial communities in Pico cheese, a traditional cheese of the Azores (Portugal), made from raw cow's milk. Pyrosequencing of tagged amplicons of the V3-V4 regions of the 16S rDNA and Operational Taxonomic Unit-based (OTU-based) analysis were applied to obtain an overall idea of the microbiota in Pico cheese and to elucidate possible differences between cheese-makers (A, B and C) and maturation times. Pyrosequencing revealed a high bacterial diversity in Pico cheese. Four phyla (Firmicutes, Proteobacteria, Actinobacteria and Bacteroidetes) and 54 genera were identified. The predominant genus was Lactococcus (77% of the sequences). Sequences belonging to major cheese-borne pathogens were not found. Staphylococcus accounted for 0.5% of the sequences. Significant differences in bacterial community composition were observed between cheese-maker B and the other two units that participated in the study. However, OTU analysis identified a set of taxa (Lactococcus, Streptococcus, Acinetobacter, Enterococcus, Lactobacillus, Staphylococcus, Rothia, Pantoea and unclassified genera belonging to the Enterobacteriaceae family) that would represent the core components of artisanal Pico cheese microbiota. A diverse bacterial community was present at early maturation, with an increase in the number of phylotypes up to 2 weeks, followed by a decrease at the end of ripening. The most remarkable trend in abundance patterns throughout ripening was an increase in the number of sequences belonging to the Lactobacillus genus, with a concomitant decrease in Acinetobacter, and Stenotrophomonas. Microbial rank abundance curves showed that Pico cheese's bacterial communities are characterized by a few dominant taxa and many low-abundance, highly diverse taxa that integrate the so-called "rare biosphere".	2015 Jan	Riquelme, Cristina; Riquelme, C; Riquelme; Câmara, Sandra; Câmara, S; Câmara; Dapkevicius, Maria de Lurdes N Enes; Dapkevicius, Mde L; Dapkevicius; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; da Silva, Célia Costa Gomes; da Silva, CC; da Silva; Malcata, F Xavier; Malcata, FX; Malcata; Rego, Oldemiro A; Rego, OA; Rego	Int J Food Microbiol
26598365	Biased Gene Conversion in Rhizobium etli Is Caused by Preferential Double-Strand Breaks on One of the Recombining Homologs.	Gene conversion, the nonreciprocal transfer of information during homologous recombination, is the main process that maintains identity between members of multigene families. Gene conversion in the nitrogenase (nifH) multigene family of Rhizobium etli was analyzed by using a two-plasmid system, where each plasmid carried a copy of nifH. One of the nifH copies was modified, creating restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs) spaced along the gene. Once the modified plasmid was introduced into R. etli, selection was done for cointegration with a resident plasmid lacking the RFLPs. Most of the cointegrate molecules harbor gene conversion events, biased toward a gain of RFLPs. This bias may be explained under the double-strand break repair model by proposing that the nifH gene lacking the RFLPs suffers a DNA double-strand break, so the incoming plasmid functions as a template for repairing the homolog on the resident plasmid. To support this proposal, we cloned an SceI site into the nifH homolog that had the RFLPs used for scoring gene conversion. In vivo expression of the meganuclease I-SceI allowed the generation of a double-strand break on this homolog. Upon introduction of this modified plasmid into an R. etli strain lacking I-SceI, biased gene conversion still favored the retention of markers on the incoming plasmid. In contrast, when the recipient strain ectopically expressed I-SceI, a dramatic reversal in gene conversion bias was seen, favoring the preservation of resident sequences. These results show that biased gene conversion is caused by preferential double-strand breaks on one of the recombining homologs.	2016 02	Yáñez-Cuna, Fares Osam; Yáñez-Cuna, FO; Yáñez-Cuna; Castellanos, Mildred; Castellanos, M; Castellanos; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero	J Bacteriol
26659678	Complete Genome Sequencing of Stenotrophomonas acidaminiphila ZAC14D2_NAIMI4_2, a Multidrug-Resistant Strain Isolated from Sediments of a Polluted River in Mexico, Uncovers New Antibiotic Resistance Genes and a Novel Class-II Lasso Peptide Biosynthesis Gene Cluster.	Here, we report the first complete genome sequence of a Stenotrophomonas acidaminiphila strain, generated with PacBio RS II single-molecule real-time technology, consisting of a single circular chromosome of 4.13 Mb. We annotated mobile genetic elements and natural product biosynthesis clusters, including a novel class-II lasso peptide with a 7-residue macrolactam ring. 	2015 Dec	Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Ochoa-Sánchez, Luz Edith; Ochoa-Sánchez, LE; Ochoa-Sánchez	Genome Announc
26494682	Draft Genome Sequence of Aeromonas caviae Strain 429865 INP, Isolated from a Mexican Patient.	Aeromonas caviae is an emerging human pathogen. Here, we report the draft genome sequence of Aeromonas caviae strain 429865 INP which shows the presence of various putative virulence-related genes. 	2015 Oct	Padilla, Juan Carlos A; Padilla, JC; Padilla; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Castro-Escarpulli, Graciela; Castro-Escarpulli, G; Castro-Escarpulli; Sánchez-Varela, Alejandro; Sánchez-Varela, A; Sánchez-Varela; Palma-Martinez, Ingrid; Palma-Martinez, I; Palma-Martinez; Arzate-Barbosa, Patricia; Arzate-Barbosa, P; Arzate-Barbosa; García-Pérez, Carlos A; García-Pérez, CA; García-Pérez; López-López, María de Jesús; López-López, Mde J; López-López; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Guo, Xianwu; Guo, X; Guo	Genome Announc
25953176	Draft Genome Sequence of Arthrobacter chlorophenolicus Strain Mor30.16, Isolated from the Bean Rhizosphere.	Bacteria of the genus Arthrobacter are commonly found in the soil and plant rhizosphere. In this study we report the draft genome of Arthrobacter chlorophenolicus strain Mor30.16 that was isolated from rhizosphere of beans grown in Cuernavaca Morelos, Mexico. This strain promotes growth and ameliorates drought stress in bean plants. 	2015 May	Miranda-Ríos, José Antonio; Miranda-Ríos, JA; Miranda-Ríos; Ramírez-Trujillo, José Augusto; Ramírez-Trujillo, JA; Ramírez-Trujillo; Nova-Franco, Bárbara; Nova-Franco, B; Nova-Franco; Lozano-Aguirre Beltrán, Luis Fernando; Lozano-Aguirre Beltrán, LF; Lozano-Aguirre Beltrán; Iturriaga, Gabriel; Iturriaga, G; Iturriaga; Suárez-Rodríguez, Ramón; Suárez-Rodríguez, R; Suárez-Rodríguez	Genome Announc
25676753	Draft Genome Sequence of Bacillus amyloliquefaciens JJC33M, Isolated from Sugarcane Soils in the Papaloapan Region, Mexico.	Bacillus amyloliquefaciens strain JJC33M is a bacterium that produces α-amylase (EC 3.2.1.1) and was isolated from sugarcane soil. Its estimated genome size is 3.96 Mb, and it harbors 4,048 coding genes (CDSs). 	2015 Feb	Montor-Antonio, J J; Montor-Antonio, JJ; Montor-Antonio; Sachman-Ruiz, B; Sachman-Ruiz, B; Sachman-Ruiz; Lozano, L; Lozano, L; Lozano; Del Moral, S; Del Moral, S; Del Moral	Genome Announc
25154054	Proteomic analysis of chloroplast biogenesis (clb) mutants uncovers novel proteins potentially involved in the development of Arabidopsis thaliana chloroplasts.	Plant cells outstand for their ability to generate biomass from inorganic sources, this phenomenon takes place within the chloroplasts. The enzymatic machinery and developmental processes of chloroplasts have been subject of research for several decades, and this has resulted in the identification of a plethora of proteins that are essential for their development and function. Mutant lines for the genes that code for those proteins, often display pigment-accumulation defects (e.g., albino phenotypes). Here, we present a comparative proteomic analysis of four chloroplast-biogenesis affected mutants (cla1-1, clb2, clb5, clb19) aiming to identify novel proteins involved in the regulation of chloroplast development in Arabidopsis thaliana. We performed 2D-PAGE separation of the protein samples. These samples were then analyzed by computational processing of gel images in order to select protein spots with abundance shifts of at least twofold, statistically significant according to Student's t-test (P<0.01). These spots were subjected to MALDI-TOF mass-spectrometry for protein identification. This process resulted in the discovery of three novel proteins potentially involved in the development of A. thaliana chloroplasts, as their associated mutant lines segregate pigment-deficient plants with abnormal chloroplasts, and altered mRNA accumulation of chloroplast-development marker genes.	2014 Dec	de Luna-Valdez, L A; de Luna-Valdez, LA; de Luna-Valdez; Martínez-Batallar, A G; Martínez-Batallar, AG; Martínez-Batallar; Hernández-Ortiz, M; Hernández-Ortiz, M; Hernández-Ortiz; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Ramos-Vega, M; Ramos-Vega, M; Ramos-Vega; López-Bucio, J S; López-Bucio, JS; López-Bucio; León, P; León, P; León; Guevara-García, A A; Guevara-García, AA; Guevara-García	J Proteomics
23834084	Complete mitochondrial genome recovered from the gut metagenome of overwintering monarch butterflies, Danaus plexippus (L.) (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae, Danainae).	We present a 15,314 bp mitochondrial genome (mitogenome) sequence from monarch butterflies overwintering in Mexico. The complete mitogenome was generated by next generation sequencing techniques and was reconstructed by iterative assembly of reads from a metagenomic study of pooled butterfly gut DNA. The mitogenome codes for 13 putative protein coding genes, 22 tRNA genes, the large and small rRNA genes, and contains the A + T-rich sequence corresponding to the control region. The consensus sequence presented here has a depth of coverage of 142-fold and only three putative single nucleotide polymorphisms could be detected. The recovered D. plexippus mitogenome represents the second analyzed for the subfamily Danainae and accordingly, the closest available sequenced mitogenome was found to be the one corresponding to Euploea mulciber (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae, Danainae).	2014 Dec	Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis E; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Mitochondrial DNA
25098225	Cupriavidus plantarum sp. nov., a plant-associated species.	During a survey of plant-associated bacteria in northeast Mexico, a group of 13 bacteria was isolated from agave, maize and sorghum plants rhizosphere. This group of strains was related to Cupriavidus respiraculi (99.4 %), but a polyphasic investigation based on DNA-DNA hybridization analysis, other genotypic studies and phenotypic features showed that this group of strains actually belongs to a new Cupriavidus species. Consequently, taking all the results together, the description of Cupriavidus plantarum sp. nov. is proposed. 	2014 Nov	Estrada-de Los Santos, Paulina; Estrada-de Los Santos, P; Estrada-de Los Santos; Solano-Rodríguez, Roosivelt; Solano-Rodríguez, R; Solano-Rodríguez; Matsumura-Paz, Lucía Tomiko; Matsumura-Paz, LT; Matsumura-Paz; Vásquez-Murrieta, María Soledad; Vásquez-Murrieta, MS; Vásquez-Murrieta; Martínez-Aguilar, Lourdes; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar	Arch Microbiol
25426171	Reducing INDEL calling errors in whole genome and exome sequencing data.	INDELs, especially those disrupting protein-coding regions of the genome, have been strongly associated with human diseases. However, there are still many errors with INDEL variant calling, driven by library preparation, sequencing biases, and algorithm artifacts.	2014	Fang, Han; Fang, H; Fang; Wu, Yiyang; Wu, Y; Wu; Narzisi, Giuseppe; Narzisi, G; Narzisi; O'Rawe, Jason A; O'Rawe, JA; O'Rawe; Barrón, Laura T Jimenez; Barrón, LT; Barrón; Rosenbaum, Julie; Rosenbaum, J; Rosenbaum; Ronemus, Michael; Ronemus, M; Ronemus; Iossifov, Ivan; Iossifov, I; Iossifov; Schatz, Michael C; Schatz, MC; Schatz; Lyon, Gholson J; Lyon, GJ; Lyon	Genome Med
25283805	An RNA-Seq based gene expression atlas of the common bean.	Common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) is grown throughout the world and comprises roughly 50% of the grain legumes consumed worldwide. Despite this, genetic resources for common beans have been lacking. Next generation sequencing, has facilitated our investigation of the gene expression profiles associated with biologically important traits in common bean. An increased understanding of gene expression in common bean will improve our understanding of gene expression patterns in other legume species.	2014 Oct	O'Rourke, Jamie A; O'Rourke, JA; O'Rourke; Iniguez, Luis P; Iniguez, LP; Iniguez; Fu, Fengli; Fu, F; Fu; Bucciarelli, Bruna; Bucciarelli, B; Bucciarelli; Miller, Susan S; Miller, SS; Miller; Jackson, Scott A; Jackson, SA; Jackson; McClean, Philip E; McClean, PE; McClean; Li, Jun; Li, J; Li; Dai, Xinbin; Dai, X; Dai; Zhao, Patrick X; Zhao, PX; Zhao; Hernandez, Georgina; Hernandez, G; Hernandez; Vance, Carroll P; Vance, CP; Vance	BMC Genomics
24739628	Interspecies competition triggers virulence and mutability in Candida albicans-Pseudomonas aeruginosa mixed biofilms.	Inter-kingdom and interspecies interactions are ubiquitous in nature and are important for the survival of species and ecological balance. The investigation of microbe-microbe interactions is essential for understanding the in vivo activities of commensal and pathogenic microorganisms. Candida albicans, a polymorphic fungus, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, a Gram-negative bacterium, are two opportunistic pathogens that interact in various polymicrobial infections in humans. To determine how P. aeruginosa affects the physiology of C. albicans and vice versa, we compared the proteomes of each species in mixed biofilms versus single-species biofilms. In addition, extracellular proteins were analyzed. We observed that, in mixed biofilms, both species showed differential expression of virulence proteins, multidrug resistance-associated proteins, proteases and cell defense, stress and iron-regulated proteins. Furthermore, in mixed biofilms, both species displayed an increase in mutability compared with monospecific biofilms. This characteristic was correlated with the downregulation of enzymes conferring protection against DNA oxidation. In mixed biofilms, P. aeruginosa regulates its production of various molecules involved in quorum sensing and induces the production of virulence factors (pyoverdine, rhamnolipids and pyocyanin), which are major contributors to the ability of this bacterium to cause disease. Overall, our results indicate that interspecies competition between these opportunistic pathogens enhances the production of virulence factors and increases mutability and thus can alter the course of host-pathogen interactions in polymicrobial infections. 	2014 Oct	Trejo-Hernández, Abigail; Trejo-Hernández, A; Trejo-Hernández; Andrade-Domínguez, Andrés; Andrade-Domínguez, A; Andrade-Domínguez; Hernández, Magdalena; Hernández, M; Hernández; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación	ISME J
25302567	Positive selection and compensatory adaptation interact to stabilize non-transmissible plasmids.	Plasmids are important drivers of bacterial evolution, but it is challenging to understand how plasmids persist over the long term because plasmid carriage is costly. Classical models predict that horizontal transfer is necessary for plasmid persistence, but recent work shows that almost half of plasmids are non-transmissible. Here we use a combination of mathematical modelling and experimental evolution to investigate how a costly, non-transmissible plasmid, pNUK73, can be maintained in populations of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Compensatory adaptation increases plasmid stability by eliminating the cost of plasmid carriage. However, positive selection for plasmid-encoded antibiotic resistance is required to maintain the plasmid by offsetting reductions in plasmid frequency due to segregational loss. Crucially, we show that compensatory adaptation and positive selection reinforce each other's effects. Our study provides a new understanding of how plasmids persist in bacterial populations, and it helps to explain why resistance can be maintained after antibiotic use is stopped. 	2014 Oct	San Millan, A; San Millan, A; San Millan; Peña-Miller, R; Peña-Miller, R; Peña-Miller; Toll-Riera, M; Toll-Riera, M; Toll-Riera; Halbert, Z V; Halbert, ZV; Halbert; McLean, A R; McLean, AR; McLean; Cooper, B S; Cooper, BS; Cooper; MacLean, R C; MacLean, RC; MacLean	Nat Commun
24952318	Symbiont shift towards Rhizobium nodulation in a group of phylogenetically related Phaseolus species.	Bean plants from the Phaseolus genus are widely consumed and represent a nitrogen source for human nutrition. They provide biological fertilization by establishing root nodule symbiosis with nitrogen-fixing bacteria. To establish a successful interaction, bean plants and their symbiotic bacteria need to synchronize a proper molecular crosstalk. Within the Phaseolus genus, P. vulgaris has been the prominent species to study nodulation with Rhizobium symbionts. However the Phaseolus genus comprises diverse species whose symbionts have not been analyzed. Here we identified and studied nodule bacteria from representative Phaseolus species not previously analyzed and from all the described wild species related to P. vulgaris. We found Bradyrhizobium in nodules from most species representing all Phaseolus clades except in five phylogenetically related species from the P. vulgaris clade. Therefore we propose that Bradyrhizobium nodulation is common in Phaseolus and that there was a symbiont preference shift to Rhizobium nodulation in few related species. This work sets the basis to further study the genetic basis of this symbiont substitution. 	2014 Oct	Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis E; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Zayas-Del Moral, Alejandra; Zayas-Del Moral, A; Zayas-Del Moral; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Delgado-Salinas, Alfonso; Delgado-Salinas, A; Delgado-Salinas; Sánchez, Federico; Sánchez, F; Sánchez; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Mol Phylogenet Evol
25054342	The cation diffusion facilitator protein EmfA of Rhizobium etli belongs to a novel subfamily of Mn(2+)/Fe(2+) transporters conserved in α-proteobacteria.	Manganese (Mn(2+)) plays a key role in important cellular functions such as oxidative stress response and bacterial virulence. The mechanisms of Mn(2+) homeostasis are not fully understood, there are few data regarding the functional and taxonomic diversity of Mn(2+) exporters. Our recent phylogeny of the cation diffusion facilitator (CDF) family of transporters classified the bacterial Mn(2+)-CDF transporters characterized to date, Streptococcus pneumoniae MntE and Deinococcus radiodurans DR1236, into two monophyletic groups. DR1236 was shown to belong to the highly-diverse metal specificity clade VI, together with TtCzrB, a Zn(2+)/Cd(2+) transporter from Thermus thermophilus, the Fe(2+) transporter Sll1263 from Synechocystis sp and eight uncharacterized homologs whose potential Mn(2+)/Zn(2+)/Cd(2+)/Fe(2+) specificities could not be accurately inferred because only eleven proteins were grouped in this clade. A new phylogeny inferred from the alignment of 197 clade VI homologs revealed three novel subfamilies of uncharacterized proteins. Remarkably, one of them contained 91 uncharacterized α-proteobacteria transporters (46% of the protein data set) grouped into a single subfamily. The Mn(2+)/Fe(2+) specificity of this subfamily was proposed through the functional characterization of the Rhizobium etli RHE_CH03072 gene. This gene was upregulated by Mn(2+), Zn(2+), Cd(2+) and Fe(2+) but conferred only Mn(2+) resistance to R. etli. The expression of the RHE_CH03072 gene in an E. coli mntP/zitB/zntA mutant did not relieve either Zn(2+) or Mn(2+) stress but slightly increased its Fe(2+) resistance. These results indicate that the RHE_CH03072 gene, now designated as emfA, encodes for a bacterial Mn(2+)/Fe(2+) resistance CDF protein, having orthologs in more than 60 α-proteobacterial species. 	2014 Oct	Cubillas, Ciro; Cubillas, C; Cubillas; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Tabche, Maria Luisa; Tabche, ML; Tabche; Dávalos, Araceli; Dávalos, A; Dávalos; Vázquez, Alejandra; Vázquez, A; Vázquez; Hernández-Lucas, Ismael; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; García-de los Santos, Alejandro; García-de los Santos, A; García-de los Santos	Metallomics
25201548	RNA-Seq analysis of the multipartite genome of Rhizobium etli CE3 shows different replicon contributions under heat and saline shock.	Regulation of transcription is essential for any organism and Rhizobium etli (a multi-replicon, nitrogen-fixing symbiotic bacterium) is no exception. This bacterium is commonly found in the rhizosphere (free-living) or inside of root-nodules of the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) in a symbiotic relationship. Abiotic stresses, such as high soil temperatures and salinity, compromise the genetic stability of R. etli and therefore its symbiotic interaction with P. vulgaris. However, it is still unclear which genes are up- or down-regulated to cope with these stress conditions. The aim of this study was to identify the genes and non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) that are differentially expressed under heat and saline shock, as well as the promoter regions of the up-regulated loci.	2014 Sep	López-Leal, Gamaliel; López-Leal, G; López-Leal; Tabche, Maria Luisa; Tabche, ML; Tabche; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Mendoza-Vargas, Alfredo; Mendoza-Vargas, A; Mendoza-Vargas; Ramírez-Romero, Miguel A; Ramírez-Romero, MA; Ramírez-Romero; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila	BMC Genomics
24493659	A novel TctA citrate transporter from an activated sludge metagenome: structural and mechanistic predictions for the TTT family.	We isolated a putative citrate transporter of the tripartite tricarboxylate transporter (TTT) class from a metagenomic library of activated sludge from a sewage treatment plant. The transporter, dubbed TctA_ar, shares ∼50% sequence identity with TctA of Comamonas testosteroni (TctA_ct) and other β-Proteobacteria, and contains two 20-amino acid repeat signature sequences, considered a hallmark of this particular transporter class. The structures for both TctA_ar and TctA_ct were modeled with I-TASSER and two possible structures for this transporter family were proposed. Docking assays with citrate resulted in the corresponding sets of proposed critical residues for function. These models suggest functions for the 20-amino acid repeats in the context of the two different architectures. This constitutes the first attempt at structure modeling of the TTT family, to the best of our knowledge, and could aid functional understanding of this little-studied family.	2014 Sep	Batista-García, Ramón Alberto; Batista-García, RA; Batista-García; Sánchez-Reyes, Ayixon; Sánchez-Reyes, A; Sánchez-Reyes; Millán-Pacheco, César; Millán-Pacheco, C; Millán-Pacheco; González-Zuñiga, Víctor Manuel; González-Zuñiga, VM; González-Zuñiga; Juárez, Soledad; Juárez, S; Juárez; Folch-Mallol, Jorge Luis; Folch-Mallol, JL; Folch-Mallol; Pastor, Nina; Pastor, N; Pastor	Proteins
25002426	Nitrogen-fixing rhizobial strains isolated from common bean seeds: phylogeny, physiology, and genome analysis.	Rhizobial bacteria are commonly found in soil but also establish symbiotic relationships with legumes, inhabiting the root nodules, where they fix nitrogen. Endophytic rhizobia have also been reported in the roots and stems of legumes and other plants. We isolated several rhizobial strains from the nodules of noninoculated bean plants and looked for their provenance in the interiors of the seeds. Nine isolates were obtained, covering most known bean symbiont species, which belong to the Rhizobium and Sinorhizobium groups. The strains showed several large plasmids, except for a Sinorhizobium americanum isolate. Two strains, one Rhizobium phaseoli and one S. americanum strain, were thoroughly characterized. Optimal symbiotic performance was observed for both of these strains. The S. americanum strain showed biotin prototrophy when subcultured, as well as high pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) activity, both of which are key factors in maintaining optimal growth. The R. phaseoli strain was a biotin auxotroph, did not grow when subcultured, accumulated a large amount of poly-β-hydroxybutyrate, and exhibited low PDH activity. The physiology and genomes of these strains showed features that may have resulted from their lifestyle inside the seeds: stress sensitivity, a ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RubisCO) complex, a homocitrate synthase (usually present only in free-living diazotrophs), a hydrogenase uptake cluster, and the presence of prophages. We propose that colonization by rhizobia and their presence in Phaseolus seeds may be part of a persistence mechanism that helps to retain and disperse rhizobial strains. 	2014 Sep	Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Díaz, Rafael; Díaz, R; Díaz; Vargas-Lagunas, Carmen; Vargas-Lagunas, C; Vargas-Lagunas; Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta; Guerrero, Gabriela; Guerrero, G; Guerrero; Aguilar, Alejandro; Aguilar, A; Aguilar; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	Appl Environ Microbiol
24972614	Rhizobium paranaense sp. nov., an effective N2-fixing symbiont of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) with broad geographical distribution in Brazil.	Nitrogen (N), the nutrient most required for plant growth, is key for good yield of agriculturally important crops. Common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) can benefit from bacteria collectively called rhizobia, which are capable of fixing atmospheric nitrogen (N2) in root nodules and supplying it to the plant. Common bean is amongst the most promiscuous legume hosts; several described species, in addition to putative novel ones have been reported as able to nodulate this legume, although not always effectively in terms of fixing N2. In this study, we present data indicating that Brazilian strains PRF 35(T), PRF 54, CPAO 1135 and H 52, currently classified as Rhizobium tropici, represent a novel species symbiont of common bean. Morphological, physiological and biochemical properties differentiate these strains from other species of the genus Rhizobium, as do BOX-PCR profiles (less than 60 % similarity), multilocus sequence analysis with recA, gyrB and rpoA (less than 96.4 % sequence similarity), DNA-DNA hybridization (less than 50 % DNA-DNA relatedness), and average nucleotide identity of whole genomes (less than 92.8.%). The novel species is effective in nodulating and fixing N2 with P. vulgaris, Leucaena leucocephala and Leucaena esculenta. We propose the name Rhizobium paranaense sp. nov. for this novel taxon, with strain PRF 35(T) ( = CNPSo 120(T) = LMG 27577(T) = IPR-Pv 1249(T)) as the type strain. 	2014 Sep	Dall'Agnol, Rebeca Fuzinatto; Dall'Agnol, RF; Dall'Agnol; Ribeiro, Renan Augusto; Ribeiro, RA; Ribeiro; Delamuta, Jakeline Renata Marçon; Delamuta, JRM; Delamuta; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Rogel, Marco Antonio; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Andrade, Diva Souza; Andrade, DS; Andrade; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Hungria, Mariangela; Hungria, M; Hungria	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
25136970	Bistable expression of virulence genes in salmonella leads to the formation of an antibiotic-tolerant subpopulation.	Phenotypic heterogeneity can confer clonal groups of organisms with new functionality. A paradigmatic example is the bistable expression of virulence genes in Salmonella typhimurium, which leads to phenotypically virulent and phenotypically avirulent subpopulations. The two subpopulations have been shown to divide labor during S. typhimurium infections. Here, we show that heterogeneous virulence gene expression in this organism also promotes survival against exposure to antibiotics through a bet-hedging mechanism. Using microfluidic devices in combination with fluorescence time-lapse microscopy and quantitative image analysis, we analyzed the expression of virulence genes at the single cell level and related it to survival when exposed to antibiotics. We found that, across different types of antibiotics and under concentrations that are clinically relevant, the subpopulation of bacterial cells that express virulence genes shows increased survival after exposure to antibiotics. Intriguingly, there is an interplay between the two consequences of phenotypic heterogeneity. The bet-hedging effect that arises through heterogeneity in virulence gene expression can protect clonal populations against avirulent mutants that exploit and subvert the division of labor within these populations. We conclude that bet-hedging and the division of labor can arise through variation in a single trait and interact with each other. This reveals a new degree of functional complexity of phenotypic heterogeneity. In addition, our results suggest a general principle of how pathogens can evade antibiotics: Expression of virulence factors often entails metabolic costs and the resulting growth retardation could generally increase tolerance against antibiotics and thus compromise treatment. 	2014 Aug	Arnoldini, Markus; Arnoldini, M; Arnoldini; Vizcarra, Ima Avalos; Vizcarra, IA; Vizcarra; Peña-Miller, Rafael; Peña-Miller, R; Peña-Miller; Stocker, Nicolas; Stocker, N; Stocker; Diard, Médéric; Diard, M; Diard; Vogel, Viola; Vogel, V; Vogel; Beardmore, Robert E; Beardmore, RE; Beardmore; Hardt, Wolf-Dietrich; Hardt, WD; Hardt; Ackermann, Martin; Ackermann, M; Ackermann	PLoS Biol
25005495	Genomic basis of symbiovar mimosae in Rhizobium etli.	Symbiosis genes (nod and nif) involved in nodulation and nitrogen fixation in legumes are plasmid-borne in Rhizobium. Rhizobial symbiotic variants (symbiovars) with distinct host specificity would depend on the type of symbiosis plasmid. In Rhizobium etli or in Rhizobium phaseoli, symbiovar phaseoli strains have the capacity to form nodules in Phaseolus vulgaris while symbiovar mimosae confers a broad host range including different mimosa trees.	2014 Jul	Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Santamaría, Rosa I; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Cevallos, Miguel Ángel; Cevallos, MÁ; Cevallos; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Castro-Mondragón, Jaime; Castro-Mondragón, J; Castro-Mondragón; Martínez-Romero, Julio; Martínez-Romero, J; Martínez-Romero; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	BMC Genomics
24812050	Testing the optimality properties of a dual antibiotic treatment in a two-locus, two-allele model.	Mathematically speaking, it is self-evident that the optimal control of complex, dynamical systems with many interacting components cannot be achieved with 'non-responsive' control strategies that are constant through time. Although there are notable exceptions, this is usually how we design treatments with antimicrobial drugs when we give the same dose and the same antibiotic combination each day. Here, we use a frequency- and density-dependent pharmacogenetics mathematical model based on a standard, two-locus, two-allele representation of how bacteria resist antibiotics to probe the question of whether optimal antibiotic treatments might, in fact, be constant through time. The model describes the ecological and evolutionary dynamics of different sub-populations of the bacterium Escherichia coli that compete for a single limiting resource in a two-drug environment. We use in vitro evolutionary experiments to calibrate and test the model and show that antibiotic environments can support dynamically changing and heterogeneous population structures. We then demonstrate, theoretically and empirically, that the best treatment strategies should adapt through time and constant strategies are not optimal. 	2014 Jul	Peña-Miller, Rafael; Peña-Miller, R; Peña-Miller; Fuentes-Hernandez, Ayari; Fuentes-Hernandez, A; Fuentes-Hernandez; Reding, Carlos; Reding, C; Reding; Gudelj, Ivana; Gudelj, I; Gudelj; Beardmore, Robert; Beardmore, R; Beardmore	J R Soc Interface
24831014	Cu(I)-mediated allosteric switching in a copper-sensing operon repressor (CsoR).	The copper-sensing operon repressor (CsoR) is representative of a major Cu(I)-sensing family of bacterial metalloregulatory proteins that has evolved to prevent cytoplasmic copper toxicity. It is unknown how Cu(I) binding to tetrameric CsoRs mediates transcriptional derepression of copper resistance genes. A phylogenetic analysis of 227 DUF156 protein members, including biochemically or structurally characterized CsoR/RcnR repressors, reveals that Geobacillus thermodenitrificans (Gt) CsoR characterized here is representative of CsoRs from pathogenic bacilli Listeria monocytogenes and Bacillus anthracis. The 2.56 Å structure of Cu(I)-bound Gt CsoR reveals that Cu(I) binding induces a kink in the α2-helix between two conserved copper-ligating residues and folds an N-terminal tail (residues 12-19) over the Cu(I) binding site. NMR studies of Gt CsoR reveal that this tail is flexible in the apo-state with these dynamics quenched upon Cu(I) binding. Small angle x-ray scattering experiments on an N-terminally truncated Gt CsoR (Δ2-10) reveal that the Cu(I)-bound tetramer is hydrodynamically more compact than is the apo-state. The implications of these findings for the allosteric mechanisms of other CsoR/RcnR repressors are discussed. 	2014 Jul	Chang, Feng-Ming James; Chang, FM; Chang; Coyne, H Jerome; Coyne, HJ; Coyne; Cubillas, Ciro; Cubillas, C; Cubillas; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Fang, Xianyang; Fang, X; Fang; Ma, Zhen; Ma, Z; Ma; Ma, Dejian; Ma, D; Ma; Helmann, John D; Helmann, JD; Helmann; García-de los Santos, Alejandro; García-de los Santos, A; García-de los Santos; Wang, Yun-Xing; Wang, YX; Wang; Dann, Charles E; Dann, CE; Dann; Giedroc, David P; Giedroc, DP; Giedroc	J Biol Chem
24903516	Assisted curation of regulatory interactions and growth conditions of OxyR in E. coli K-12.	Given the current explosion of data within original publications generated in the field of genomics, a recognized bottleneck is the transfer of such knowledge into comprehensive databases. We have for years organized knowledge on transcriptional regulation reported in the original literature of Escherichia coli K-12 into RegulonDB (http://regulondb.ccg.unam.mx), our database that is currently supported by >5000 papers. Here, we report a first step towards the automatic biocuration of growth conditions in this corpus. Using the OntoGene text-mining system (http://www.ontogene.org), we extracted and manually validated regulatory interactions and growth conditions in a new approach based on filters that enable the curator to select informative sentences from preprocessed full papers. Based on a set of 48 papers dealing with oxidative stress by OxyR, we were able to retrieve 100% of the OxyR regulatory interactions present in RegulonDB, including the transcription factors and their effect on target genes. Our strategy was designed to extract, as we did, their growth conditions. This result provides a proof of concept for a more direct and efficient curation process, and enables us to define the strategy of the subsequent steps to be implemented for a semi-automatic curation of original literature dealing with regulation of gene expression in bacteria. This project will enhance the efficiency and quality of the curation of knowledge present in the literature of gene regulation, and contribute to a significant increase in the encoding of the regulatory network of E. coli. RegulonDB Database URL: http://regulondb.ccg.unam.mx OntoGene URL: http://www.ontogene.org. 	2014	Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Rinaldi, Fabio; Rinaldi, F; Rinaldi; López-Fuentes, Alejandra; López-Fuentes, A; López-Fuentes; Balderas-Martínez, Yalbi Itzel; Balderas-Martínez, YI; Balderas-Martínez; Clematide, Simon; Clematide, S; Clematide; Ellendorff, Tilia Renate; Ellendorff, TR; Ellendorff; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Marques-Madeira, Hernani; Marques-Madeira, H; Marques-Madeira; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Database (Oxford)
24888481	Comparative genomics of Bradyrhizobium japonicum CPAC 15 and Bradyrhizobium diazoefficiens CPAC 7: elite model strains for understanding symbiotic performance with soybean.	The soybean-Bradyrhizobium symbiosis can be highly efficient in fixing nitrogen, but few genomic sequences of elite inoculant strains are available. Here we contribute with information on the genomes of two commercial strains that are broadly applied to soybean crops in the tropics. B. japonicum CPAC 15 (=SEMIA 5079) is outstanding in its saprophytic capacity and competitiveness, whereas B. diazoefficiens CPAC 7 (=SEMIA 5080) is known for its high efficiency in fixing nitrogen. Both are well adapted to tropical soils. The genomes of CPAC 15 and CPAC 7 were compared to each other and also to those of B. japonicum USDA 6T and B. diazoefficiens USDA 110T.	2014 Jun	Siqueira, Arthur Fernandes; Siqueira, AF; Siqueira; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Souza, Rangel Celso; Souza, RC; Souza; Rodrigues, Elisete Pains; Rodrigues, EP; Rodrigues; Almeida, Luiz Gonzaga Paula; Almeida, LG; Almeida; Barcellos, Fernando Gomes; Barcellos, FG; Barcellos; Batista, Jesiane Stefânia Silva; Batista, JS; Batista; Nakatani, Andre Shigueyoshi; Nakatani, AS; Nakatani; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Vasconcelos, Ana Tereza Ribeiro; Vasconcelos, AT; Vasconcelos; Hungria, Mariangela; Hungria, M; Hungria	BMC Genomics
24664579	Bradyrhizobium paxllaeri sp. nov. and Bradyrhizobium icense sp. nov., nitrogen-fixing rhizobial symbionts of Lima bean (Phaseolus lunatus L.) in Peru.	A group of strains isolated from root nodules of Phaseolus lunatus (Lima bean) in Peru were characterized by genotypic, genomic and phenotypic methods. All strains possessed identical 16S rRNA gene sequences that were 99.9% identical to that of Bradyrhizobium lablabi CCBAU 23086(T). Despite having identical 16S rRNA gene sequences, the Phaseolus lunatus strains could be divided into two clades by sequence analysis of recA, atpD, glnII, dnaK and gyrB genes. The genome sequence of a representative of each clade was obtained and compared to the genomes of closely related species of the genus Bradyrhizobium. Average nucleotide identity values below the species circumscription threshold were obtained when comparing the two clades to each other (88.6%) and with all type strains of the genus Bradyrhizobium (≤92.9%). Phenotypes distinguishing both clades from all described and closely related species of the genus Bradyrhizobium were found. On the basis of the results obtained, two novel species, Bradyrhizobium paxllaeri sp. nov. (type strain LMTR 21(T) = DSM 18454(T) = HAMBI 2911(T)) and Bradyrhizobium icense sp. nov. (type strain LMTR 13(T) = HAMBI 3584(T) = CECT 8509(T) = CNPSo 2583(T)), are proposed to accommodate the uncovered clades of Phaseolus lunatus bradyrhizobia. These species share highly related but distinct nifH and nodC symbiosis genes.	2014 Jun	Durán, David; Durán, D; Durán; Rey, Luis; Rey, L; Rey; Mayo, Juan; Mayo, J; Mayo; Zúñiga-Dávila, Doris; Zúñiga-Dávila, D; Zúñiga-Dávila; Imperial, Juan; Imperial, J; Imperial; Ruiz-Argüeso, Tomás; Ruiz-Argüeso, T; Ruiz-Argüeso; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
24886809	Differential proteomic analysis of the pancreas of diabetic db/db mice reveals the proteins involved in the development of complications of diabetes mellitus.	Type 2 diabetes mellitus is characterized by hyperglycemia and insulin-resistance. Diabetes results from pancreatic inability to secrete the insulin needed to overcome this resistance. We analyzed the protein profile from the pancreas of ten-week old diabetic db/db and wild type mice through proteomics. Pancreatic proteins were separated in two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (2D-PAGE) and significant changes in db/db mice respect to wild type mice were observed in 27 proteins. Twenty five proteins were identified by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) time-of-flight (TOF) and their interactions were analyzed using search tool for the retrieval of interacting genes/proteins (STRING) and database for annotation, visualization and integrated discovery (DAVID). Some of these proteins were Pancreatic α-amylase, Cytochrome b5, Lithostathine-1, Lithostathine-2, Chymotrypsinogen B, Peroxiredoxin-4, Aspartyl aminopeptidase, Endoplasmin, and others, which are involved in the metabolism of carbohydrates and proteins, as well as in oxidative stress, and inflammation. Remarkably, these are mostly endoplasmic reticulum proteins related to peptidase activity, i.e., they are involved in proteolysis, glucose catabolism and in the tumor necrosis factor-mediated signaling pathway. These results suggest mechanisms for insulin resistance, and the chronic inflammatory state observed in diabetes. 	2014 May	Pérez-Vázquez, Victoriano; Pérez-Vázquez, V; Pérez-Vázquez; Guzmán-Flores, Juan M; Guzmán-Flores, JM; Guzmán-Flores; Mares-Álvarez, Daniela; Mares-Álvarez, D; Mares-Álvarez; Hernández-Ortiz, Magdalena; Hernández-Ortiz, M; Hernández-Ortiz; Macías-Cervantes, Maciste H; Macías-Cervantes, MH; Macías-Cervantes; Ramírez-Emiliano, Joel; Ramírez-Emiliano, J; Ramírez-Emiliano; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara	Int J Mol Sci
24646299	Rhizobial plasmid pLPU83a is able to switch between different transfer machineries depending on its genomic background.	Plasmids have played a major role in bacterial evolution, mainly by their capacity to perform horizontal gene transfer (HGT). Their conjugative transfer (CT) properties are usually described in terms of the plasmid itself. In this work, we analyzed structural and functional aspects of the CT of pLPU83a, an accessory replicon from Rhizobium sp. LPU83, able to transfer from its parental strain, from Ensifer meliloti, or from Rhizobium etli. pLPU83a contains a complete set of transfer genes, featuring a particular organization, shared with only two other rhizobial plasmids. These plasmids contain a TraR quorum-sensing (QS) transcriptional regulator, but lack an acyl-homoserine lactone (AHL) synthase gene. We also determined that the ability of pLPU83a to transfer from R. etli CFN42 genomic background was mainly achieved through mobilization, employing the machinery of the endogenous plasmid pRetCFN42a, falling under control of the QS regulators from pRetCFN42a. In contrast, from its native or from the E. meliloti background, pLPU83a utilized its own machinery for conjugation, requiring the plasmid-encoded traR. Activation of TraR seemed to be AHL independent. The results obtained indicate that the CT phenotype of a plasmid is dictated not only by the genes it carries, but by their interaction with its genomic context.	2014 Jun	Torres Tejerizo, Gonzalo; Torres Tejerizo, G; Torres Tejerizo; Pistorio, Mariano; Pistorio, M; Pistorio; Althabegoiti, María J; Althabegoiti, MJ; Althabegoiti; Cervantes, Laura; Cervantes, L; Cervantes; Wibberg, Daniel; Wibberg, D; Wibberg; Schlüter, Andreas; Schlüter, A; Schlüter; Pühler, Alfred; Pühler, A; Pühler; Lagares, Antonio; Lagares, A; Lagares; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom	FEMS Microbiol Ecol
24720747	The Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi ltrR-ompR-ompC-ompF genes are involved in resistance to the bile salt sodium deoxycholate and in bacterial transformation.	A characterization of the LtrR regulator, an S. Typhi protein belonging to the LysR family is presented. Proteomics, outer membrane protein profiles and transcriptional analyses demonstrated that LtrR is required for the synthesis of OmpR, OmpC and OmpF. DNA-protein interaction analysis showed that LtrR binds to the regulatory region of ompR and then OmpR interacts with the ompC and ompF promoters inducing porin synthesis. LtrR-dependent and independent ompR promoters were identified, and both promoters are involved in the synthesis of OmpR for OmpC and OmpF production. To define the functional role of the ltrR-ompR-ompC-ompF genetic network, mutants in each gene were obtained. We found that ltrR, ompR, ompC and ompF were involved in the control of bacterial transformation, while the two regulators and ompC are necessary for the optimal growth of S. Typhi in the presence of one of the major bile salts found in the gut, sodium deoxycholate. The data presented establish the pivotal role of LtrR in the regulatory network of porin synthesis and reveal new genetic strategies of survival and cellular adaptation to the environment used by Salmonella.	2014 Jun	Villarreal, J M; Villarreal, JM; Villarreal; Becerra-Lobato, N; Becerra-Lobato, N; Becerra-Lobato; Rebollar-Flores, J E; Rebollar-Flores, JE; Rebollar-Flores; Medina-Aparicio, L; Medina-Aparicio, L; Medina-Aparicio; Carbajal-Gómez, E; Carbajal-Gómez, E; Carbajal-Gómez; Zavala-García, M L; Zavala-García, ML; Zavala-García; Vázquez, A; Vázquez, A; Vázquez; Gutiérrez-Ríos, R M; Gutiérrez-Ríos, RM; Gutiérrez-Ríos; Olvera, L; Olvera, L; Olvera; Encarnación, S; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Martínez-Batallar, A G; Martínez-Batallar, AG; Martínez-Batallar; Calva, E; Calva, E; Calva; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas	Mol Microbiol
24595137	Comparative genomics and immunoinformatics approach for the identification of vaccine candidates for enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli O157:H7.	Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli (EHEC) O157:H7 strains are major human food-borne pathogens, responsible for bloody diarrhea and hemolytic-uremic syndrome worldwide. Thus far, there is no vaccine for humans against EHEC infections. In this study, a comparative genomics analysis was performed to identify EHEC-specific antigens useful as potential vaccines. The genes present in both EHEC EDL933 and Sakai strains but absent in nonpathogenic E. coli K-12 and HS strains were subjected to an in silico analysis to identify secreted or surface-expressed proteins. We obtained a total of 65 gene-encoding protein candidates, which were subjected to immunoinformatics analysis. Our criteria of selection aided in categorizing the candidates as high, medium, and low priority. Three members of each group were randomly selected and cloned into pVAX-1. Candidates were pooled accordingly to their priority group and tested for immunogenicity against EHEC O157:H7 using a murine model of gastrointestinal infection. The high-priority (HP) pool, containing genes encoding a Lom-like protein (pVAX-31), a putative pilin subunit (pVAX-12), and a fragment of the type III secretion structural protein EscC (pVAX-56.2), was able to induce the production of EHEC IgG and sIgA in sera and feces. HP candidate-immunized mice displayed elevated levels of Th2 cytokines and diminished cecum colonization after wild-type challenge. Individually tested HP vaccine candidates showed that pVAX-12 and pVAX-56.2 significantly induced Th2 cytokines and production of fecal EHEC sIgA, with pVAX-56.2 reducing EHEC cecum colonization. We describe here a bioinformatics approach able to identify novel vaccine candidates potentially useful for preventing EHEC O157:H7 infections. 	2014 May	García-Angulo, Víctor A; García-Angulo, VA; García-Angulo; Kalita, Anjana; Kalita, A; Kalita; Kalita, Mridul; Kalita, M; Kalita; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Torres, Alfredo G; Torres, AG; Torres	Infect Immun
24304674	Eco-evolutionary feedbacks drive species interactions.	In the biosphere, many species live in close proximity and can thus interact in many different ways. Such interactions are dynamic and fall along a continuum between antagonism and cooperation. Because interspecies interactions are the key to understanding biological communities, it is important to know how species interactions arise and evolve. Here, we show that the feedback between ecological and evolutionary processes has a fundamental role in the emergence and dynamics of species interaction. Using a two-species artificial community, we demonstrate that ecological processes and rapid evolution interact to influence the dynamics of the symbiosis between a eukaryote (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) and a bacterium (Rhizobium etli). The simplicity of our experimental design enables an explicit statement of causality. The niche-constructing activities of the fungus were the key ecological process: it allowed the establishment of a commensal relationship that switched to ammensalism and provided the selective conditions necessary for the adaptive evolution of the bacteria. In this latter state, the bacterial population radiates into more than five genotypes that vary with respect to nutrient transport, metabolic strategies and global regulation. Evolutionary diversification of the bacterial populations has strong effects on the community; the nature of interaction subsequently switches from ammensalism to antagonism where bacteria promote yeast extinction. Our results demonstrate the importance of the evolution-to-ecology pathway in the persistence of interactions and the stability of communities. Thus, eco-evolutionary dynamics have the potential to transform the structure and functioning of ecosystems. Our results suggest that these dynamics should be considered to improve our understanding of beneficial and detrimental host-microbe interactions. 	2014 May	Andrade-Domínguez, Andrés; Andrade-Domínguez, A; Andrade-Domínguez; Salazar, Emmanuel; Salazar, E; Salazar; Vargas-Lagunas, María del Carmen; Vargas-Lagunas, Mdel C; Vargas-Lagunas; Kolter, Roberto; Kolter, R; Kolter; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación	ISME J
24558041	A bifunctional glycosyltransferase from Agrobacterium tumefaciens synthesizes monoglucosyl and glucuronosyl diacylglycerol under phosphate deprivation.	Glycolipids are mainly found in phototrophic organisms (like plants and cyanobacteria), in Gram-positive bacteria, and a few other bacterial phyla. Besides the function as bulk membrane lipids, they often play a role under phosphate deprivation as surrogates for phospholipids. The Gram-negative Agrobacterium tumefaciens accumulates four different glycolipids under phosphate deficiency, including digalactosyl diacylglycerol and glucosylgalactosyl diacylglycerol synthesized by a processive glycosyltransferase. The other two glycolipids have now been identified by mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy as monoglucosyl diacylglycerol and glucuronosyl diacylglycerol. These two lipids are synthesized by a single promiscuous glycosyltransferase encoded by the ORF atu2297, with UDP-glucose or UDP-glucuronic acid as sugar donors. The transfer of sugars differing in their chemistry is a novel feature not observed before for lipid glycosyltransferases. Furthermore, this enzyme is the first glucuronosyl diacylglycerol synthase isolated. Deletion mutants of Agrobacterium lacking monoglucosyl diacylglycerol and glucuronosyl diacylglycerol or all glycolipids are not impaired in growth or virulence during infection of tobacco leaf discs. Our data suggest that the four glycolipids and the nonphospholipid diacylglyceryl trimethylhomoserine can mutually replace each other during phosphate deprivation. This redundancy of different nonphospholipids may represent an adaptation mechanism to enhance the competitiveness in nature. 	2014 Apr	Semeniuk, Adrian; Semeniuk, A; Semeniuk; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Duda, Katarzyna; Duda, K; Duda; Hölzl, Georg; Hölzl, G; Hölzl	J Biol Chem
24790563	Chaotic multiquenching annealing applied to the protein folding problem.	The Chaotic Multiquenching Annealing algorithm (CMQA) is proposed. CMQA is a new algorithm, which is applied to protein folding problem (PFP). This algorithm is divided into three phases: (i) multiquenching phase (MQP), (ii) annealing phase (AP), and (iii) dynamical equilibrium phase (DEP). MQP enforces several stages of quick quenching processes that include chaotic functions. The chaotic functions can increase the exploration potential of solutions space of PFP. AP phase implements a simulated annealing algorithm (SA) with an exponential cooling function. MQP and AP are delimited by different ranges of temperatures; MQP is applied for a range of temperatures which goes from extremely high values to very high values; AP searches for solutions in a range of temperatures from high values to extremely low values. DEP phase finds the equilibrium in a dynamic way by applying least squares method. CMQA is tested with several instances of PFP. 	2014	Frausto-Solis, Juan; Frausto-Solis, J; Frausto-Solis; Liñan-García, Ernesto; Liñan-García, E; Liñan-García; Sánchez-Pérez, Mishael; Sánchez-Pérez, M; Sánchez-Pérez; Sánchez-Hernández, Juan Paulo; Sánchez-Hernández, JP; Sánchez-Hernández	ScientificWorldJournal
24385478	A small heat-shock protein (Hsp20) regulated by RpoS is essential for cyst desiccation resistance in Azotobacter vinelandii.	In Azotobacter vinelandii, a cyst-forming bacterium, the alternative sigma factor RpoS is essential to the formation of cysts resistant to desiccation and to synthesis of the cyst-specific lipids, alkylresorcinols. In this study, we carried out a proteome analysis of vegetative cells and cysts of A. vinelandii strain AEIV and its rpoS mutant derivative AErpoS. This analysis allowed us to identify a small heat-shock protein, Hsp20, as one of the most abundant proteins of cysts regulated by RpoS. Inactivation of hsp20 did not affect the synthesis of alkylresorcinols or the formation of cysts with WT morphology; however, the cysts formed by the hsp20 mutant strain were unable to resist desiccation. We also demonstrated that expression of hsp20 from an RpoS-independent promoter in the AErpoS mutant strain is not enough to restore the phenotype of resistance to desiccation. These results indicate that Hsp20 is essential for the resistance to desiccation of A. vinelandii cysts, probably by preventing the aggregation of proteins caused by the lack of water. To our knowledge, this is the first report of a small heat-shock protein that is essential for desiccation resistance in bacteria. 	2014 Mar	Cocotl-Yañez, Miguel; Cocotl-Yañez, M; Cocotl-Yañez; Moreno, Soledad; Moreno, S; Moreno; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; López-Pliego, Liliana; López-Pliego, L; López-Pliego; Castañeda, Miguel; Castañeda, M; Castañeda; Espín, Guadalupe; Espín, G; Espín	Microbiology (Reading)
24610838	Genome sequence of "Candidatus Walczuchella monophlebidarum" the flavobacterial endosymbiont of Llaveia axin axin (Hemiptera: Coccoidea: Monophlebidae).	Scale insects (Hemiptera: Coccoidae) constitute a very diverse group of sap-feeding insects with a large diversity of symbiotic associations with bacteria. Here, we present the complete genome sequence, metabolic reconstruction, and comparative genomics of the flavobacterial endosymbiont of the giant scale insect Llaveia axin axin. The gene repertoire of its 309,299 bp genome was similar to that of other flavobacterial insect endosymbionts though not syntenic. According to its genetic content, essential amino acid biosynthesis is likely to be the flavobacterial endosymbiont's principal contribution to the symbiotic association with its insect host. We also report the presence of a γ-proteobacterial symbiont that may be involved in waste nitrogen recycling and also has amino acid biosynthetic capabilities that may provide metabolic precursors to the flavobacterial endosymbiont. We propose "Candidatus Walczuchella monophlebidarum" as the name of the flavobacterial endosymbiont of insects from the Monophlebidae family. 	2014 Mar	Rosas-Pérez, Tania; Rosas-Pérez, T; Rosas-Pérez; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Rincón-Rosales, Reiner; Rincón-Rosales, R; Rincón-Rosales; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Genome Biol Evol
24387000	Nitrate regulates rhizobial and mycorrhizal symbiosis in common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.).	Nitrogen-limited conditions are considered to be a prerequisite for legume-rhizobial symbiosis, but the effects of nitrate-rich conditions on symbiotic status remain poorly understood. We addressed this issue by examining rhizobial (Rhizobim tropici) and arbusclar mycorrhizal (Glomus intraradices) symbiosis in Phaseolus vulgaris L. cv. Negro Jamapa under nitrate pre-incubation and continuous nitrate conditions. Our results indicate that nitrate pre-incubation, independent of the concentration, did not affect nodule development. However, the continuous supply of nitrate at high concentrations impaired nodule maturation and nodule numbers. Low nitrate conditions, in addition to positively regulating nodule number, biomass, and nitrogenase activity, also extended the span of nitrogen-fixing activity. By contrast, for arbuscular mycorrhizae, continuous 10 and 50 mmol/L nitrate increased the percent root length colonization, concomitantly reduced arbuscule size, and enhanced ammonia transport without affecting phosphate transport. Therefore, in this manuscript, we have proposed the importance of nitrate as a positive regulator in promoting both rhizobial and mycorrhizal symbiosis in the common bean. 	2014 Mar	Nanjareddy, Kalpana; Nanjareddy, K; Nanjareddy; Blanco, Lourdes; Blanco, L; Blanco; Arthikala, Manoj-Kumar; Arthikala, MK; Arthikala; Affantrange, Xochitl Alvarado; Affantrange, XA; Affantrange; Sánchez, Federico; Sánchez, F; Sánchez; Lara, Miguel; Lara, M; Lara	J Integr Plant Biol
24464102	Zn-bis-glutathionate is the best co-substrate of the monomeric phytochelatin synthase from the photosynthetic heavy metal-hyperaccumulator Euglena gracilis.	The phytochelatin synthase from photosynthetic Euglena gracilis (EgPCS) was analyzed at the transcriptional, kinetic, functional, and phylogenetic levels. Recombinant EgPCS was a monomeric enzyme able to synthesize, in the presence of Zn(2+) or Cd(2+), phytochelatin2-phytochelatin4 (PC2-PC4) using GSH or S-methyl-GS (S-methyl-glutathione), but not γ-glutamylcysteine or PC2 as a substrate. Kinetic analysis of EgPCS firmly established a two-substrate reaction mechanism for PC2 synthesis with Km values of 14-22 mM for GSH and 1.6-2.5 μM for metal-bis-glutathionate (Me-GS2). EgPCS showed the highest Vmax and catalytic efficiency with Zn-(GS)2, and was inactivated by peroxides. The EgPCS N-terminal domain showed high similarity to that of other PCSases, in which the typical catalytic core (Cys-70, His-179 and Asp-197) was identified. In contrast, the C-terminal domain showed no similarity to other PCSases. An EgPCS mutant comprising only the N-terminal 235 amino acid residues was inactive, suggesting that the C-terminal domain is essential for activity/stability. EgPCS transcription in Euglena cells was not modified by Cd(2+), whereas its heterologous expression in ycf-1 yeast cells provided resistance to Cd(2+) stress. Phylogenetic analysis of the N-terminal domain showed that EgPCS is distant from plants and other photosynthetic organisms, suggesting that it evolved independently. Although EgPCS showed typical features of PCSases (constitutive expression; conserved N-terminal domain; kinetic mechanism), it also exhibited distinct characteristics such as preference for Zn-(GS)2 over Cd-(GS)2 as a co-substrate, a monomeric structure, and ability to solely synthesize short-chain PCs, which may be involved in conferring enhanced heavy-metal resistance. 	2014 Mar	García-García, Jorge D; García-García, JD; García-García; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Saavedra, Emma; Saavedra, E; Saavedra; Pardo, Juan P; Pardo, JP; Pardo; Rodríguez-Zavala, José S; Rodríguez-Zavala, JS; Rodríguez-Zavala; Encalada, Rusely; Encalada, R; Encalada; Reyes-Prieto, Adrián; Reyes-Prieto, A; Reyes-Prieto; Mendoza-Cózatl, David G; Mendoza-Cózatl, DG; Mendoza-Cózatl; Moreno-Sánchez, Rafael; Moreno-Sánchez, R; Moreno-Sánchez	Metallomics
24576319	Proteomic identification of fucosylated haptoglobin alpha isoforms in ascitic fluids and its localization in ovarian carcinoma tissues from Mexican patients.	Ovarian cancer is the most lethal gynecologic disease due to delayed diagnosis, and ascites production is a characteristic of patients in advanced stages. The aim of this study was to perform the proteomic analysis of ascitic fluids of Mexican patients with ovarian carcinoma, in order to detect proteins with a differential expression pattern in the continuing search to identify biomarkers for this disease.	2014 Feb	Garibay-Cerdenares, Olga Lilia; Garibay-Cerdenares, OL; Garibay-Cerdenares; Hernández-Ramírez, Verónica Ivonne; Hernández-Ramírez, VI; Hernández-Ramírez; Osorio-Trujillo, Juan Carlos; Osorio-Trujillo, JC; Osorio-Trujillo; Hernández-Ortíz, Magdalena; Hernández-Ortíz, M; Hernández-Ortíz; Gallardo-Rincón, Dolores; Gallardo-Rincón, D; Gallardo-Rincón; Cantú de León, David; Cantú de León, D; Cantú de León; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Villegas-Pineda, Julio César; Villegas-Pineda, JC; Villegas-Pineda; Talamás-Rohana, Patricia; Talamás-Rohana, P; Talamás-Rohana	J Ovarian Res
24516674	Structural properties of prokaryotic promoter regions correlate with functional features.	The structural properties of the DNA molecule are known to play a critical role in transcription. In this paper, the structural profiles of promoter regions were studied within the context of their diversity and their function for eleven prokaryotic species; Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Salmonella Typhimurium, Pseudomonas auroginosa, Geobacter sulfurreducens Helicobacter pylori, Chlamydophila pneumoniae, Synechocystis sp., Synechoccocus elongates, Bacillus anthracis, and the archaea Sulfolobus solfataricus. The main anchor point for these promoter regions were transcription start sites identified through high-throughput experiments or collected within large curated databases. Prokaryotic promoter regions were found to be less stable and less flexible than the genomic mean across all studied species. However, direct comparison between species revealed differences in their structural profiles that can not solely be explained by the difference in genomic GC content. In addition, comparison with functional data revealed that there are patterns in the promoter structural profiles that can be linked to specific functional loci, such as sigma factor regulation or transcription factor binding. Interestingly, a novel structural element clearly visible near the transcription start site was found in genes associated with essential cellular functions and growth in several species. Our analyses reveals the great diversity in promoter structural profiles both between and within prokaryotic species. We observed relationships between structural diversity and functional features that are interesting prospects for further research to yet uncharacterized functional loci defined by DNA structural properties. 	2014	Meysman, Pieter; Meysman, P; Meysman; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Morett, Enrique; Morett, E; Morett; Viola, Roberto; Viola, R; Viola; Engelen, Kristof; Engelen, K; Engelen; Laukens, Kris; Laukens, K; Laukens	PLoS One
24397311	Characterization of Rhizobium grahamii extrachromosomal replicons and their transfer among rhizobia.	Rhizobium grahamii belongs to a new phylogenetic group of rhizobia together with Rhizobium mesoamericanum and other species. R. grahamii has a broad-host-range that includes Leucaena leucocephala and Phaseolus vulgaris, although it is a poor competitor for P. vulgaris nodulation in the presence of Rhizobium etli or Rhizobium phaseoli strains. This work analyzed the genome sequence and transfer properties of R. grahamii plasmids.	2014 Jan	Althabegoiti, María Julia; Althabegoiti, MJ; Althabegoiti; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Torres Tejerizo, Gonzalo; Torres Tejerizo, G; Torres Tejerizo; Rogel, Marco Antonio; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	BMC Microbiol
24400089	Regulation of copper homeostasis and biotic interactions by microRNA 398b in common bean.	MicroRNAs are recognized as important post-transcriptional regulators in plants. Information about the roles of miRNAs in common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.), an agronomically important legume, is yet scant. The objective of this work was to functionally characterize the conserved miRNA: miR398b and its target Cu/Zn Superoxide Dismutase 1 (CSD1) in common bean. We experimentally validated a novel miR398 target: the stress up-regulated Nodulin 19 (Nod19). Expression analysis of miR398b and target genes -CSD1 and Nod19- in bean roots, nodules and leaves, indicated their role in copper (Cu) homeostasis. In bean plants under Cu toxicity miR398b was decreased and Nod19 and CSD1, that participates in reactive oxygen species (ROS) detoxification, were up-regulated. The opposite regulation was observed in Cu deficient bean plants; lower levels of CSD1 would allow Cu delivery to essential Cu-containing proteins. Composite common bean plants with transgenic roots over-expressing miR398 showed ca. 20-fold higher mature miR398b and almost negligible target transcript levels as well as increased anthocyanin content and expression of Cu-stress responsive genes, when subjected to Cu deficiency. The down-regulation of miR398b with the consequent up-regulation of its targets was observed in common bean roots during the oxidative burst resulting from short-time exposure to high Cu. A similar response occurred at early stage of bean roots inoculated with Rhizobium tropici, where an increase in ROS was observed. In addition, the miR398b down-regulation and an increase in CSD1 and Nod19 were observed in bean leaves challenged with Sclerotinia scleortiorum fungal pathogen. Transient over-expression of miR398b in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves infected with S. sclerotiorum resulted in enhanced fungal lesions. We conclude that the miR398b-mediated up-regulation of CSD and Nod19 is relevant for common bean plants to cope with oxidative stress generated in abiotic and biotic stresses. 	2014	Naya, Loreto; Naya, L; Naya; Paul, Sujay; Paul, S; Paul; Valdés-López, Oswaldo; Valdés-López, O; Valdés-López; Mendoza-Soto, Ana B; Mendoza-Soto, AB; Mendoza-Soto; Nova-Franco, Bárbara; Nova-Franco, B; Nova-Franco; Sosa-Valencia, Guadalupe; Sosa-Valencia, G; Sosa-Valencia; Reyes, José L; Reyes, JL; Reyes; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	PLoS One
24214998	COLOMBOS v2.0: an ever expanding collection of bacterial expression compendia.	The COLOMBOS database (http://www.colombos.net) features comprehensive organism-specific cross-platform gene expression compendia of several bacterial model organisms and is supported by a fully interactive web portal and an extensive web API. COLOMBOS was originally published in PLoS One, and COLOMBOS v2.0 includes both an update of the expression data, by expanding the previously available compendia and by adding compendia for several new species, and an update of the surrounding functionality, with improved search and visualization options and novel tools for programmatic access to the database. The scope of the database has also been extended to incorporate RNA-seq data in our compendia by a dedicated analysis pipeline. We demonstrate the validity and robustness of this approach by comparing the same RNA samples measured in parallel using both microarrays and RNA-seq. As far as we know, COLOMBOS currently hosts the largest homogenized gene expression compendia available for seven bacterial model organisms. 	2014 Jan	Meysman, Pieter; Meysman, P; Meysman; Sonego, Paolo; Sonego, P; Sonego; Bianco, Luca; Bianco, L; Bianco; Fu, Qiang; Fu, Q; Fu; Ledezma-Tejeida, Daniela; Ledezma-Tejeida, D; Ledezma-Tejeida; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Liebens, Veerle; Liebens, V; Liebens; Michiels, Jan; Michiels, J; Michiels; Laukens, Kris; Laukens, K; Laukens; Marchal, Kathleen; Marchal, K; Marchal; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Engelen, Kristof; Engelen, K; Engelen	Nucleic Acids Res
24138283	Identification and expression profiling of Vigna mungo microRNAs from leaf small RNA transcriptome by deep sequencing.	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) represent a class of small non-coding RNA molecules that play a crucial role in post-transcriptional gene regulation. Several conserved and species-specific miRNAs have been characterized to date, predominantly from the plant species whose genome is well characterized. However, information on the variability of these regulatory RNAs in economically important but genetically less characterized crop species are limited. Vigna mungo is an important grain legume, which is grown primarily for its protein-rich edible seeds. miRNAs from this species have not been identified to date due to lack of genome sequence information. To identify miRNAs from V. mungo, a small RNA library was constructed from young leaves. High-throughput Illumina sequencing technology and bioinformatic analysis of the small RNA reads led to the identification of 66 miRNA loci represented by 45 conserved miRNAs belonging to 19 families and eight non-conserved miRNAs belonging to seven families. Besides, 13 novel miRNA candidates in V. mungo were also identified. Expression patterns of selected conserved, non-conserved, and novel miRNA candidates have been demonstrated in leaf, stem, and root tissues by quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and potential target genes were predicted for most of the conserved miRNAs. This information offers genomic resources for better understanding of miRNA mediated post-transcriptional gene regulation. 	2014 Jan	Paul, Sujay; Paul, S; Paul; Kundu, Anirban; Kundu, A; Kundu; Pal, Amita; Pal, A; Pal	J Integr Plant Biol
24187088	In silico identification and experimental characterization of regulatory elements controlling the expression of the Salmonella csrB and csrC genes.	The small RNAs CsrB and CsrC of Salmonella indirectly control the expression of numerous genes encoding widespread cellular functions, including virulence. The expression of csrB and csrC genes, which are located in different chromosomal regions, is coordinated by positive transcriptional control mediated by the two-component regulatory system BarA/SirA. Here, we identified by computational analysis an 18-bp inverted repeat (IR) sequence located far upstream from the promoter of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium csrB and csrC genes. Deletion analysis and site-directed mutagenesis of the csrB and csrC regulatory regions revealed that this IR sequence is required for transcriptional activation of both genes. Protein-DNA and protein-protein interaction assays showed that the response regulator SirA specifically binds to the IR sequence and provide evidence that SirA acts as a dimer. Interestingly, whereas the IR sequence was essential for the SirA-mediated expression of csrB, our results revealed that SirA controls the expression of csrC not only by binding to the IR sequence but also by an indirect mode involving the Csr system. Additional computational, biochemical, and genetic analyses demonstrated that the integration host factor (IHF) global regulator positively controls the expression of csrB, but not of csrC, by interacting with a sequence located between the promoter and the SirA-binding site. These findings contribute to the better understanding of the regulatory mechanism controlling the expression of CsrB and CsrC. 	2014 Jan	Martínez, Luary C; Martínez, LC; Martínez; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Fernández-Mora, Marcos; Fernández-Mora, M; Fernández-Mora; Medina-Rivera, Alejandra; Medina-Rivera, A; Medina-Rivera; Puente, José L; Puente, JL; Puente; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Bustamante, Víctor H; Bustamante, VH; Bustamante	J Bacteriol
24185856	Narrow-host-range bacteriophages that infect Rhizobium etli associate with distinct genomic types.	In this work, we isolated and characterized 14 bacteriophages that infect Rhizobium etli. They were obtained from rhizosphere soil of bean plants from agricultural lands in Mexico using an enrichment method. The host range of these phages was narrow but variable within a collection of 48 R. etli strains. We obtained the complete genome sequence of nine phages. Four phages were resistant to several restriction enzymes and in vivo cloning, probably due to nucleotide modifications. The genome size of the sequenced phages varied from 43 kb to 115 kb, with a median size of ≈ 45 to 50 kb. A large proportion of open reading frames of these phage genomes (65 to 70%) consisted of hypothetical and orphan genes. The remainder encoded proteins needed for phage morphogenesis and DNA synthesis and processing, among other functions, and a minor percentage represented genes of bacterial origin. We classified these phages into four genomic types on the basis of their genomic similarity, gene content, and host range. Since there are no reports of similar sequences, we propose that these bacteriophages correspond to novel species.	2014 Jan	Santamaría, Rosa Isela; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Sepúlveda-Robles, Omar; Sepúlveda-Robles, O; Sepúlveda-Robles; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Rodríguez, César; Rodríguez, C; Rodríguez; Fernández, José Luis; Fernández, JL; Fernández; Juárez, Soledad; Juárez, S; Juárez; Kameyama, Luis; Kameyama, L; Kameyama; Guarneros, Gabriel; Guarneros, G; Guarneros; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; González, Víctor; González, V; González	Appl Environ Microbiol
23824666	Potentiation of the synergistic activities of chitinases ChiA, ChiB and ChiC from Serratia marcescens CFFSUR-B2 by chitobiase (Chb) and chitin binding protein (CBP).	With the goal of understanding the chitinolytic mechanism of the potential biological control strain Serratia marcescens CFFSUR-B2, genes encoding chitinases ChiA, ChiB and ChiC, chitobiase (Chb) and chitin binding protein (CBP) were cloned, the protein products overexpressed in Escherichia coli as 6His-Sumo fusion proteins and purified by affinity chromatography. Following affinity tag removal, the chitinolytic activity of the recombinant proteins was evaluated individually and in combination using colloidal chitin as substrate. ChiB and ChiC were highly active while ChiA was inactive. Reactions containing both ChiB and ChiC showed significantly increased N-acetylglucosamine trimer and dimer formation, but decreased monomer formation, compared to reactions with either enzyme alone. This suggests that while both ChiB and ChiC have a general affinity for the same substrate, they attack different sites and together degrade chitin more efficiently than either enzyme separately. Chb and CBP in combination with ChiB and ChiC (individually or together) increased their chitinase activity. We report for the first time the potentiating effect of Chb on the activity of the chitinases and the synergistic activity of a mixture of all five proteins (the three chitinases, Chb and CBP). These results contribute to our understanding of the mechanism of action of the chitinases produced by strain CFFSUR-B2 and provide a molecular basis for its high potential as a biocontrol agent against fungal pathogens. 	2014 Jan	Gutiérrez-Román, Martha Ingrid; Gutiérrez-Román, MI; Gutiérrez-Román; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Tinoco-Valencia, Raunel; Tinoco-Valencia, R; Tinoco-Valencia; Holguín-Meléndez, Francisco; Holguín-Meléndez, F; Holguín-Meléndez; Huerta-Palacios, Graciela; Huerta-Palacios, G; Huerta-Palacios; Guillén-Navarro, Karina; Guillén-Navarro, K; Guillén-Navarro	World J Microbiol Biotechnol
25468217	Whole genome de novo assemblies of three  divergent strains of rice, Oryza sativa, document  novel gene space of aus and indica.	The use of high throughput genome-sequencing technologies has uncovered a large extent of structural variation in eukaryotic genomes that makes important contributions to genomic diversity and phenotypic variation. When the genomes of different strains of a given organism are compared, whole genome resequencing data are typically aligned to an established reference sequence. However, when the reference differs in significant structural ways from the individuals under study, the analysis is often incomplete or inaccurate.	2014	Schatz, Michael C; Schatz, MC; Schatz; Maron, Lyza G; Maron, LG; Maron; Stein, Joshua C; Stein, JC; Stein; Hernandez Wences, Alejandro; Hernandez Wences, A; Hernandez Wences; Gurtowski, James; Gurtowski, J; Gurtowski; Biggers, Eric; Biggers, E; Biggers; Lee, Hayan; Lee, H; Lee; Kramer, Melissa; Kramer, M; Kramer; Antoniou, Eric; Antoniou, E; Antoniou; Ghiban, Elena; Ghiban, E; Ghiban; Wright, Mark H; Wright, MH; Wright; Chia, Jer-ming; Chia, JM; Chia; Ware, Doreen; Ware, D; Ware; McCouch, Susan R; McCouch, SR; McCouch; McCombie, W Richard; McCombie, WR; McCombie	Genome Biol
24060999	A proteomic approach of pediatric astrocytomas: MiRNAs and network insight.	Pediatric astrocytomas, a leading cause of death associated with cancer, are the most common primary central nervous system tumors found in children. Most studies of these tumors focus on adults, not on children. We examined the global protein and microRNA expression pattern by 2D SDS-PAGE, mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF), and RT(2) miRNA PCR Array System. Proteomic studies revealed 49 proteins with changes on the expression. Interactome showed that vimentin, calreticulin, and 14-3-3 epsilon protein are hub proteins in these neoplasms. MicroRNA analyses demonstrated for the first time novel microRNAs involved in the astrocytoma biology. In conclusion, our results show that novel proteins and microRNAs with expression changes on pediatric astrocytoma could serve as biomarkers of tumor progression.	2013 Dec	Ruiz Esparza-Garrido, Ruth; Ruiz Esparza-Garrido, R; Ruiz Esparza-Garrido; Velázquez-Flores, Miguel Á; Velázquez-Flores, MÁ; Velázquez-Flores; Diegopérez-Ramírez, Jaime; Diegopérez-Ramírez, J; Diegopérez-Ramírez; López-Aguilar, Enrique; López-Aguilar, E; López-Aguilar; Siordia-Reyes, Georgina; Siordia-Reyes, G; Siordia-Reyes; Hernández-Ortiz, Magdalena; Hernández-Ortiz, M; Hernández-Ortiz; Martínez-Batallar, Angel G; Martínez-Batallar, AG; Martínez-Batallar; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Salamanca-Gómez, Fabio; Salamanca-Gómez, F; Salamanca-Gómez; Arenas-Aranda, Diego Julio; Arenas-Aranda, DJ; Arenas-Aranda	J Proteomics
24057982	Burkholderia caballeronis sp. nov., a nitrogen fixing species isolated from tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) with the ability to effectively nodulate Phaseolus vulgaris.	During a survey of Burkholderia species with potential use in agrobiotechnology, a group of 12 strains was isolated from the rhizosphere and rhizoplane of tomato plants growing in Mexico (Nepantla, Mexico State). A phylogenetic analysis of 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that the strains are related to Burkholderia kururiensis and Burkholderia mimosarum (97.4 and 97.1 %, respectively). However, they induced effective nitrogen-fixing nodules on roots of Phaseolus vulgaris. Based on polyphasic taxonomy, the group of strains represents a novel species for which the name Burkholderia caballeronis sp. nov. is proposed. The type species is TNe-841(T) (= LMG 26416(T) = CIP 110324(T)).	2013 Dec	Martínez-Aguilar, Lourdes; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar; Salazar-Salazar, Corelly; Salazar-Salazar, C; Salazar-Salazar; Méndez, Rafael Díaz; Méndez, RD; Méndez; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Hirsch, Ann M; Hirsch, AM; Hirsch; Vásquez-Murrieta, María Soledad; Vásquez-Murrieta, MS; Vásquez-Murrieta; Estrada-de los Santos, Paulina; Estrada-de los Santos, P; Estrada-de los Santos	Antonie Van Leeuwenhoek
23327937	Evidence classification of high-throughput protocols and confidence integration in RegulonDB.	RegulonDB provides curated information on the transcriptional regulatory network of Escherichia coli and contains both experimental data and computationally predicted objects. To account for the heterogeneity of these data, we introduced in version 6.0, a two-tier rating system for the strength of evidence, classifying evidence as either 'weak' or 'strong' (Gama-Castro,S., Jimenez-Jacinto,V., Peralta-Gil,M. et al. RegulonDB (Version 6.0): gene regulation model of Escherichia Coli K-12 beyond transcription, active (experimental) annotated promoters and textpresso navigation. Nucleic Acids Res., 2008;36:D120-D124.). We now add to our classification scheme the classification of high-throughput evidence, including chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and RNA-seq technologies. To integrate these data into RegulonDB, we present two strategies for the evaluation of confidence, statistical validation and independent cross-validation. Statistical validation involves verification of ChIP data for transcription factor-binding sites, using tools for motif discovery and quality assessment of the discovered matrices. Independent cross-validation combines independent evidence with the intention to mutually exclude false positives. Both statistical validation and cross-validation allow to upgrade subsets of data that are supported by weak evidence to a higher confidence level. Likewise, cross-validation of strong confidence data extends our two-tier rating system to a three-tier system by introducing a third confidence score 'confirmed'. Database URL: http://regulondb.ccg.unam.mx/	2013	Weiss, Verena; Weiss, V; Weiss; Medina-Rivera, Alejandra; Medina-Rivera, A; Medina-Rivera; Huerta, Araceli M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Morett, Enrique; Morett, E; Morett; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Database (Oxford)
24096415	GET_HOMOLOGUES, a versatile software package for scalable and robust microbial pangenome analysis.	GET_HOMOLOGUES is an open-source software package that builds on popular orthology-calling approaches making highly customizable and detailed pangenome analyses of microorganisms accessible to nonbioinformaticians. It can cluster homologous gene families using the bidirectional best-hit, COGtriangles, or OrthoMCL clustering algorithms. Clustering stringency can be adjusted by scanning the domain composition of proteins using the HMMER3 package, by imposing desired pairwise alignment coverage cutoffs, or by selecting only syntenic genes. The resulting homologous gene families can be made even more robust by computing consensus clusters from those generated by any combination of the clustering algorithms and filtering criteria. Auxiliary scripts make the construction, interrogation, and graphical display of core genome and pangenome sets easy to perform. Exponential and binomial mixture models can be fitted to the data to estimate theoretical core genome and pangenome sizes, and high-quality graphics can be generated. Furthermore, pangenome trees can be easily computed and basic comparative genomics performed to identify lineage-specific genes or gene family expansions. The software is designed to take advantage of modern multiprocessor personal computers as well as computer clusters to parallelize time-consuming tasks. To demonstrate some of these capabilities, we survey a set of 50 Streptococcus genomes annotated in the Orthologous Matrix (OMA) browser as a benchmark case. The package can be downloaded at http://www.eead.csic.es/compbio/soft/gethoms.php and http://maya.ccg.unam.mx/soft/gethoms.php. 	2013 Dec	Contreras-Moreira, Bruno; Contreras-Moreira, B; Contreras-Moreira; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa	Appl Environ Microbiol
24077251	Phylogenomic analysis of Cation Diffusion Facilitator proteins uncovers Ni2+/Co2+ transporters.	The ubiquitous Cation Diffusion Facilitator proteins (CDF) play a key role in maintaining the cellular homeostasis of essential metal ions. Previous neighbor-joining phylogenetic analysis classified CDF proteins into three substrate-defined groups: Zn(2+), Fe(2+)/Zn(2+) and Mn(2+). These studies were unable to discern substrate-defined clades for Ni(2+), Co(2+), Cd(2+) and Cu(2+) transporters, despite their existence in this family. In this study we improved the accuracy of this previous functional classification using a phylogenomic approach based on a thorough maximum-likelihood phylogeny and the inclusion of recently characterized CDF transporters. The inference of CDF protein function predicted novel clades for Zn(2+), Fe(2+), Cd(2+) and Mn(2+). The Ni(2+)/Co(2+) and Co(2+) substrate specificities of two clades containing uncharacterized proteins were defined through the functional characterization of nepA and cepA metal inducible genes which independently conferred Ni(2+) and Co(2+) resistances to Rhizobium etli CFN42 and increased, respectively, Ni(2+)/Co(2+) and Co(2+) resistances to Escherichia coli. Neither NepA nor CepA confer Zn(2+), Fe(2+) and Mn(2+) resistances. The ability of NepA to confer Ni(2+)/Co(2+) resistance is dependent on clade-specific residues Asn(88) and Arg(197) whose mutations produce a non-functional protein.	2013 Dec	Cubillas, Ciro; Cubillas, C; Cubillas; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Tabche, Maria Luisa; Tabche, ML; Tabche; García-de los Santos, Alejandro; García-de los Santos, A; García-de los Santos	Metallomics
24262067	Conjugative transfer of an IncA/C plasmid-borne blaCMY-2 gene through genetic re-arrangements with an IncX1 plasmid.	Our observation that in the Mexican Salmonella Typhimurium population none of the ST19 and ST213 strains harbored both the Salmonella virulence plasmid (pSTV) and the prevalent IncA/C plasmid (pA/C) led us to hypothesize that restriction to horizontal transfer of these plasmids existed. We designed a conjugation scheme using ST213 strain YU39 as donor of the blaCMY-2 gene (conferring resistance to ceftriaxone; CRO) carried by pA/C, and two E. coli lab strains (DH5α and HB101) and two Typhimurium ST19 strains (SO1 and LT2) carrying pSTV as recipients. The aim of this study was to determine if the genetic background of the different recipient strains affected the transfer frequencies of pA/C.	2013 Nov	Wiesner, Magdalena; Wiesner, M; Wiesner; Fernández-Mora, Marcos; Fernández-Mora, M; Fernández-Mora; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Zavala-Alvarado, Crispín; Zavala-Alvarado, C; Zavala-Alvarado; Zaidi, Mussaret B; Zaidi, MB; Zaidi; Calva, Edmundo; Calva, E; Calva; Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva	BMC Microbiol
24237659	Lessons from the modular organization of the transcriptional regulatory network of Bacillus subtilis.	The regulation of gene expression at the transcriptional level is a fundamental process in prokaryotes. Among the different kind of mechanisms modulating gene transcription, the one based on DNA binding transcription factors, is the most extensively studied and the results, for a great number of model organisms, have been compiled making it possible the in silico construction of their corresponding transcriptional regulatory networks and the analysis of the biological relationships of the components of these intricate networks, that allows to elucidate the significant aspects of their organization and evolution.	2013 Nov	Freyre-González, Julio A; Freyre-González, JA; Freyre-González; Manjarrez-Casas, Alejandra M; Manjarrez-Casas, AM; Manjarrez-Casas; Merino, Enrique; Merino, E; Merino; Martinez-Nuñez, Mario; Martinez-Nuñez, M; Martinez-Nuñez; Perez-Rueda, Ernesto; Perez-Rueda, E; Perez-Rueda; Gutiérrez-Ríos, Rosa-María; Gutiérrez-Ríos, RM; Gutiérrez-Ríos	BMC Syst Biol
24016735	RepA and RepB exert plasmid incompatibility repressing the transcription of the repABC operon.	Rhizobium etli CFN42 has a multipartite genome composed of one chromosome and six large plasmids with low copy numbers, all belonging to the repABC plasmid family. All elements essential for replication and segregation of these plasmids are encoded within the repABC operon. RepA and RepB direct plasmid segregation and are involved in the transcriptional regulation of the operon, and RepC is the initiator protein of the plasmid. Here we show that in addition to RepA (repressor) and RepB (corepressor), full transcriptional repression of the operon located in the symbiotic plasmid (pRetCFN42d) of this strain requires parS, the centromere-like sequence, and the operator sequence. However, the co-expression of RepA and RepB is sufficient to induce the displacement of the parental plasmid. RepA is a Walker-type ATPase that self associates in vivo and in vitro and binds specifically to the operator region in its RepA-ADP form. In contrast, RepA-ATP is capable of binding to non-specific DNA. RepA and RepB form high molecular weight DNA-protein complexes in the presence of ATP and ADP. RepA carrying ATP-pocket motif mutations induce full repression of the repABC operon without the participation of RepB and parS. These mutants specifically bind the operator sequence in their ATP or ADP bound forms. In addition, their expression in trans exerts plasmid incompatibility against the parental plasmid. RepA and RepB expressed in trans induce plasmid incompatibility because of their ability to repress the repABC operon and not only by their capacity to distort the plasmid segregation process. 	2013 Nov	Pérez-Oseguera, Angeles; Pérez-Oseguera, A; Pérez-Oseguera; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	Plasmid
23771622	Rhizobium freirei sp. nov., a symbiont of Phaseolus vulgaris that is very effective at fixing nitrogen.	Common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) can establish symbiotic associations with several Rhizobium species; however, the effectiveness of most strains at fixing nitrogen under field conditions is very low. PRF 81(T) is a very effective strain, usually referred to as Rhizobium tropici and used successfully in thousands of doses of commercial inoculants for the common bean crop in Brazil; it has shown high rates of nitrogen fixation in all areas representative of the crop in the country. Here, we present results that indicate that PRF 81(T), although it belongs to the 'R. tropici group', which includes 10 Rhizobium species, R. tropici, R. leucaenae, R. lusitanum, R. multihospitium, R. miluonense, R. hainanense, R. calliandrae, R. mayense, R. jaguaris and R. rhizogenes, represents a novel species. Several morpho-physiological traits differentiated PRF 81(T) from related species. Differences were also confirmed in the analysis of rep-PCR (sharing less than 45 % similarity with the other species), MLSA with recA, atpD and rpoB genes, and DNA-DNA hybridization. The novel species, for which we propose the name Rhizobium freirei sp. nov., is able to establish effective root nodule symbioses with Phaseolus vulgaris, Leucaena leucocephala, Leucaena esculenta, Crotalaria juncea and Macroptilium atropurpureum. The type strain is PRF 81(T) ( = CNPSo 122(T) = SEMIA 4080(T) = IPR-Pv81(T) = WDCM 440(T)). 	2013 Nov	Dall'Agnol, Rebeca Fuzinatto; Dall'Agnol, RF; Dall'Agnol; Ribeiro, Renan Augusto; Ribeiro, RA; Ribeiro; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Rogel, Marco Antonio; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Delamuta, Jakeline Renata Marçon; Delamuta, JRM; Delamuta; Andrade, Diva Souza; Andrade, DS; Andrade; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Hungria, Mariangela; Hungria, M; Hungria	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
23432573	Transcript profiling of common bean nodules subjected to oxidative stress.	Several environmental stresses generate high amounts of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in plant cells, resulting in oxidative stress. Symbiotic nitrogen fixation (SNF) in the legume-rhizobia symbiosis is sensitive to damage from oxidative stress. Active nodules of the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) exposed to the herbicide paraquat (1,1'-dimethyl-4,4'-bipyridinium dichloride hydrate), which stimulates ROS accumulation, exhibited reduced nitrogenase activity and ureide content. We analyzed the global gene response of nodules subjected to oxidative stress using the Bean Custom Array 90K, which includes probes from 30,000 expressed sequence tags (ESTs). A total of 4280 ESTs were differentially expressed in stressed bean nodules; of these, 2218 were repressed. Based on Gene Ontology analysis, these genes were grouped into 42 different biological process categories. Analysis with the PathExpress bioinformatic tool, adapted for bean, identified five significantly repressed metabolic pathways related to carbon/nitrogen metabolism, which is crucial for nodule function. Quantitative reverse transcription (qRT)-PCR analysis of transcription factor (TF) gene expression showed that 67 TF genes were differentially expressed in nodules exposed to oxidative stress. Putative cis-elements recognized by highly responsive TF were detected in promoter regions of oxidative stress regulated genes. The expression of oxidative stress responsive genes and of genes important for SNF in bacteroids analyzed in stressed nodules revealed that these conditions elicited a transcriptional response.	2013 Nov	Ramírez, Mario; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Guillén, Gabriel; Guillén, G; Guillén; Fuentes, Sara I; Fuentes, SI; Fuentes; Iñiguez, Luis P; Iñiguez, LP; Iñiguez; Aparicio-Fabre, Rosaura; Aparicio-Fabre, R; Aparicio-Fabre; Zamorano-Sánchez, David; Zamorano-Sánchez, D; Zamorano-Sánchez; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Panzeri, Dario; Panzeri, D; Panzeri; Castiglioni, Bianca; Castiglioni, B; Castiglioni; Cremonesi, Paola; Cremonesi, P; Cremonesi; Strozzi, Francesco; Strozzi, F; Strozzi; Stella, Alessandra; Stella, A; Stella; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Sparvoli, Francesca; Sparvoli, F; Sparvoli; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	Physiol Plant
24288657	Identification of putative ortholog gene blocks involved in gestant and lactating mammary gland development: a rodent cross-species microarray transcriptomics approach.	The mammary gland (MG) undergoes functional and metabolic changes during the transition from pregnancy to lactation, possibly by regulation of conserved genes. The objective was to elucidate orthologous genes, chromosome clusters and putative conserved transcriptional modules during MG development. We analyzed expression of 22,000 transcripts using murine microarrays and RNA samples of MG from virgin, pregnant, and lactating rats by cross-species hybridization. We identified 521 transcripts differentially expressed; upregulated in early (78%) and midpregnancy (89%) and early lactation (64%), but downregulated in mid-lactation (61%). Putative orthologous genes were identified. We mapped the altered genes to orthologous chromosomal locations in human and mouse. Eighteen sets of conserved genes associated with key cellular functions were revealed and conserved transcription factor binding site search entailed possible coregulation among all eight block sets of genes. This study demonstrates that the use of heterologous array hybridization for screening of orthologous gene expression from rat revealed sets of conserved genes arranged in chromosomal order implicated in signaling pathways and functional ontology. Results demonstrate the utilization power of comparative genomics and prove the feasibility of using rodent microarrays to identification of putative coexpressed orthologous genes involved in the control of human mammary gland development. 	2013	Rodríguez-Cruz, Maricela; Rodríguez-Cruz, M; Rodríguez-Cruz; Coral-Vázquez, Ramón M; Coral-Vázquez, RM; Coral-Vázquez; Hernández-Stengele, Gabriel; Hernández-Stengele, G; Hernández-Stengele; Sánchez, Raúl; Sánchez, R; Sánchez; Salazar, Emmanuel; Salazar, E; Salazar; Sanchez-Muñoz, Fausto; Sanchez-Muñoz, F; Sanchez-Muñoz; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Ramírez-Salcedo, Jorge; Ramírez-Salcedo, J; Ramírez-Salcedo	Int J Genomics
23935046	Characterization of IntA, a bidirectional site-specific recombinase required for conjugative transfer of the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium etli CFN42.	Site-specific recombination occurs at short specific sequences, mediated by the cognate recombinases. IntA is a recombinase from Rhizobium etli CFN42 and belongs to the tyrosine recombinase family. It allows cointegration of plasmid p42a and the symbiotic plasmid via site-specific recombination between attachment regions (attA and attD) located in each replicon. Cointegration is needed for conjugative transfer of the symbiotic plasmid. To characterize this system, two plasmids harboring the corresponding attachment sites and intA were constructed. Introduction of these plasmids into R. etli revealed IntA-dependent recombination events occurring at high frequency. Interestingly, IntA promotes not only integration, but also excision events, albeit at a lower frequency. Thus, R. etli IntA appears to be a bidirectional recombinase. IntA was purified and used to set up electrophoretic mobility shift assays with linear fragments containing attA and attD. IntA-dependent retarded complexes were observed only with fragments containing either attA or attD. Specific retarded complexes, as well as normal in vivo recombination abilities, were seen even in derivatives harboring only a minimal attachment region (comprising the 5-bp central region flanked by 9- to 11-bp inverted repeats). DNase I-footprinting assays with IntA revealed specific protection of these zones. Mutations that disrupt the integrity of the 9- to 11-bp inverted repeats abolish both specific binding and recombination ability, while mutations in the 5-bp central region severely reduce both binding and recombination. These results show that IntA is a bidirectional recombinase that binds to att regions without requiring neighboring sequences as enhancers of recombination. 	2013 Oct	Hernández-Tamayo, Rogelio; Hernández-Tamayo, R; Hernández-Tamayo; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Puente, José Luis; Puente, JL; Puente; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero	J Bacteriol
23504968	Polyphasic evidence supporting the reclassification of Bradyrhizobium japonicum group Ia strains as Bradyrhizobium diazoefficiens sp. nov.	Bradyrhizobium japonicum was described from soybean root-nodule bacterial isolates. Since its description, several studies have revealed heterogeneities among rhizobia assigned to this species. Strains assigned to B. japonicum group Ia have been isolated in several countries, and many of them are outstanding soybean symbionts used in inoculants worldwide, but they have also been isolated from other legume hosts. Here, we summarize published studies that indicate that group Ia strains are different from the B. japonicum type strain USDA 6(T) and closely related strains, and present new morphophysiological, genotypic and genomic evidence to support their reclassification into a novel species, for which the name Bradyrhizobium diazoefficiens sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain of the novel species is the well-studied strain USDA 110(T) ( =IAM 13628(T)  =CCRC 13528(T)  =NRRL B-4361(T)  =NRRL B-4450(T)  =TAL 102(T)  =BCRC 13528(T)  =JCM 10833(T)  =TISTR 339(T)  =SEMIA 5032(T)  =3I1B110(T)  =ACCC 15034(T)  =CCT 4249(T)  = NBRC 14792(T)  = R-12974(T)  = CNPSo 46(T)).	2013 Sep	Delamuta, Jakeline Renata Marçon; Delamuta, JRM; Delamuta; Ribeiro, Renan Augusto; Ribeiro, RA; Ribeiro; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Melo, Itamar Soares; Melo, IS; Melo; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Hungria, Mariangela; Hungria, M; Hungria	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
23584283	Rhizobium calliandrae sp. nov., Rhizobium mayense sp. nov. and Rhizobium jaguaris sp. nov., rhizobial species nodulating the medicinal legume Calliandra grandiflora.	Calliandra grandiflora has been used as a medicinal plant for thousands of years in Mexico. Rhizobial strains were obtained from root nodules of C. grandiflora collected from different geographical regions in Chiapas and characterized by BOX-PCR, amplified rDNA restriction analysis (ARDRA) and 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis. Most isolates corresponded to members of the genus Rhizobium and those not related to species with validly published names were further characterized by recA, atpD, rpoB and nifH gene phylogenies, phenotypic and DNA-DNA hybridization analyses. Three novel related species of the genus Rhizobium within the 'Rhizobium tropici group' share the same symbiovar that may be named sv. calliandrae. The names proposed for the three novel species are Rhizobium calliandrae sp. nov. (type strain, CCGE524(T) =ATCC BAA-2435(T) =CIP 110456(T) =LBP2-1(T)), Rhizobium mayense sp. nov. (type strain, CCGE526(T) =ATCC BAA-2446(T) = CIP 110454(T) =NSJP1-1(T)) and Rhizobium jaguaris sp. nov. (type strain, CCGE525(T) =ATCC BAA-2445(T) =CIP 110453(T) =SJP1-2(T)).	2013 Sep	Rincón-Rosales, Reiner; Rincón-Rosales, R; Rincón-Rosales; Villalobos-Escobedo, José M; Villalobos-Escobedo, JM; Villalobos-Escobedo; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Martinez, Julio; Martinez, J; Martinez; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
24396271	Anti-Sigma Factors in E. coli: Common Regulatory Mechanisms Controlling Sigma Factors Availability.	In bacteria, transcriptional regulation is a key step in cellular gene expression. All bacteria contain a core RNA polymerase that is catalytically competent but requires an additional σ factor for specific promoter recognition and correct transcriptional initiation. The RNAP core is not able to selectively bind to a given σ factor. In contrast, different σ factors have different affinities for the RNAP core. As a consequence, the concentration of alternate σ factors requires strict regulation in order to properly control the delicate interplay among them, which favors the competence for the RNAP core. This control is archived by different σ/anti-σ controlling mechanisms that shape complex regulatory networks and cascades, and enable the response to sudden environmental cues, whose global understanding is a current challenge for systems biology. Although there have been a number of excellent studies on each of these σ/anti-σ post-transcriptional regulatory systems, no comprehensive comparison of these mechanisms in a single model organism has been conducted. Here, we survey all these systems in E. coli dissecting and analyzing their inner workings and highlightin their differences. Then, following an integral approach, we identify their commonalities and outline some of the principles exploited by the cell to effectively and globally reprogram the transcriptional machinery. These principles provide guidelines for developing biological synthetic circuits enabling an efficient and robust response to sudden stimuli. 	2013 Sep	Treviño-Quintanilla, Luis Gerardo; Treviño-Quintanilla, LG; Treviño-Quintanilla; Freyre-González, Julio Augusto; Freyre-González, JA; Freyre-González; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores	Curr Genomics
23764913	Novel Rhizobium lineages isolated from root nodules of the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) in Andean and Mesoamerican areas.	The taxonomic affiliations of nineteen root-nodule bacteria isolated from the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) in Mexico, Ecuador and Brazil were investigated by analyses of 16S rRNA and of four protein-coding housekeeping genes. One strain from Mexico could be assigned to Rhizobium etli and two from Brazil to Rhizobium leucaenae, whereas another from Mexico corresponded to a recently described bean-nodulating species-level lineage related to R. etli and Rhizobium phaseoli. Ten strains isolated in Ecuador and Mexico corresponded to three novel Rhizobium lineages that fall into the R. phaseoli/R. etli/Rhizobium leguminosarum clade. One of those lineages, with representatives isolated mostly from Ecuador, seems to be dominant in beans from that Andean region. Only one of the Mexican strains clustered within the Rhizobium tropici clade, but as an independent lineage. Interestingly, four strains were affiliated with species within the Rhizobium radiobacter clade. The existence of yet non-described native Rhizobium lineages in both the Andean and Mesoamerican areas is discussed in relation to common-bean diversity and environmental conditions.	2013 Sep	Ribeiro, Renan Augusto; Ribeiro, RA; Ribeiro; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Dall'Agnol, Rebeca Fuzinatto; Dall'Agnol, RF; Dall'Agnol; Graham, Peter H; Graham, PH; Graham; Martinez-Romero, Esperanza; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Hungria, Mariangela; Hungria, M; Hungria	Res Microbiol
23507492	Characterization of Streptomyces isolates causing colour changes of mural paintings in ancient Egyptian tombs.	Paintings in ancient Egyptian tombs often suffer colour changes due to microbial growth and colonization. Streptomyces strains were isolated from mural paintings of Tell Basta and Tanis tombs (East of Nile Delta, Egypt) and were identified using biochemical and molecular methods. The16S rDNA sequences data indicated that isolated strains were closely related to S. coelicolor, S. albidofuscus, S. ambofaciens, S. canarius, S. parvullus, S. corchorusii, S. albidofuscus and S. nigrifaciens. It could be shown that Streptomyces strains are involved on a large scale in the colour changes of paintings and stone support by producing a wide range of metabolites such as acids (oxalic, citric and sulphuric acids), biopigments of melanin, carotenoids, and hydrogen sulphide.	2013 Aug	Abdel-Haliem, M E F; Abdel-Haliem, ME; Abdel-Haliem; Sakr, A A; Sakr, AA; Sakr; Ali, M F; Ali, MF; Ali; Ghaly, M F; Ghaly, MF; Ghaly; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	Microbiol Res
23680857	Identification of volatile compounds produced by the bacterium Burkholderia tropica that inhibit the growth of fungal pathogens.	It has been documented that bacteria from the Burkholderia genera produce different kinds of compounds that inhibit plant pathogens, however in Burkholderia tropica, an endophytic diazotrophic and phosphate-solubilizing bacterium isolated from a wide diversity of plants, the capacity to produce antifungal compounds has not been evaluated. In order to expand our knowledge about Burkholderia tropica as a potential biological control agent, we analyzed 15 different strains of this bacterium to evaluate their capacities to inhibit the growth of four phytopathogenic fungi, Colletotrichum gloeosporioides, Fusarium culmorum, Fusarium oxysporum and Sclerotium rolffsi. Diverse analytical techniques, including plant root protection and dish plate growth assays and gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy showed that the fungal growth inhibition was intimately associated with the volatile compounds produced by B. tropica and, in particular, two bacterial strains (MTo293 and TTe203) exhibited the highest radial mycelial growth inhibition. Morphological changes associated with these compounds, such as disruption of fungal hyphae, were identified by using photomicrographic analysis. By using gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy technique, 18 volatile compounds involved in the growth inhibition mechanism were identified, including α-pinene and limonene. In addition, we found a high proportion of bacterial strains that produced siderophores during growth with different carbon sources, such as alanine and glutamic acid; however, their roles in the antagonism mechanism remain unclear. 	2013 Jul-Aug	Tenorio-Salgado, Silvia; Tenorio-Salgado, S; Tenorio-Salgado; Tinoco, Raunel; Tinoco, R; Tinoco; Vazquez-Duhalt, Rafael; Vazquez-Duhalt, R; Vazquez-Duhalt; Caballero-Mellado, Jesus; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Perez-Rueda, Ernesto; Perez-Rueda, E; Perez-Rueda	Bioengineered
23525792	Nitrogen-fixing and uricolytic bacteria associated with the gut of Dendroctonus rhizophagus and Dendroctonus valens (Curculionidae: Scolytinae).	The bark beetles of the genus Dendroctonus feed on phloem that is a nitrogen-limited source. Nitrogen fixation and nitrogen recycling may compensate or alleviate such a limitation, and beetle-associated bacteria capable of such processes were identified. Raoultella terrigena, a diazotrophic bacteria present in the gut of Dendroctonus rhizophagus and D. valens, exhibited high acetylene reduction activity in vitro with different carbon sources, and its nifH and nifD genes were sequenced. Bacteria able to recycle uric acid were Pseudomonas fluorescens DVL3A that used it as carbon and nitrogen source, Serratia proteomaculans 2A CDF and Rahnella aquatilis 6-DR that used uric acid as sole nitrogen source. Also, this is the first report about the uric acid content in whole eggs, larvae, and adults (male and female) samples of the red turpentine beetle (Dendroctonus valens). Our results suggest that the gut bacteria of these bark beetles could contribute to insect N balance.	2013 Jul	Morales-Jiménez, Jesús; Morales-Jiménez, J; Morales-Jiménez; Vera-Ponce de León, Arturo; Vera-Ponce de León, A; Vera-Ponce de León; García-Domínguez, Aidé; García-Domínguez, A; García-Domínguez; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Zúñiga, Gerardo; Zúñiga, G; Zúñiga; Hernández-Rodríguez, César; Hernández-Rodríguez, C; Hernández-Rodríguez	Microb Ecol
23404651	Phylogenetic analysis of burkholderia species by multilocus sequence analysis.	Burkholderia comprises more than 60 species of environmental, clinical, and agro-biotechnological relevance. Previous phylogenetic analyses of 16S rRNA, recA, gyrB, rpoB, and acdS gene sequences as well as genome sequence comparisons of different Burkholderia species have revealed two major species clusters. In this study, we undertook a multilocus sequence analysis of 77 type and reference strains of Burkholderia using atpD, gltB, lepA, and recA genes in combination with the 16S rRNA gene sequence and employed maximum likelihood and neighbor-joining criteria to test this further. The phylogenetic analysis revealed, with high supporting values, distinct lineages within the genus Burkholderia. The two large groups were named A and B, whereas the B. rhizoxinica/B. endofungorum, and B. andropogonis groups consisted of two and one species, respectively. The group A encompasses several plant-associated and saprophytic bacterial species. The group B comprises the B. cepacia complex (opportunistic human pathogens), the B. pseudomallei subgroup, which includes both human and animal pathogens, and an assemblage of plant pathogenic species. The distinct lineages present in Burkholderia suggest that each group might represent a different genus. However, it will be necessary to analyze the full set of Burkholderia species and explore whether enough phenotypic features exist among the different clusters to propose that these groups should be considered separate genera.	2013 Jul	Estrada-de los Santos, Paulina; Estrada-de los Santos, P; Estrada-de los Santos; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Martínez-Aguilar, Lourdes; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar; Hirsch, Ann M; Hirsch, AM; Hirsch; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	Curr Microbiol
23583844	The calcium-stimulated lipid A 3-O deacylase from Rhizobium etli is not essential for plant nodulation.	The lipid A component of lipopolysaccharide from the nitrogen-fixing plant endosymbiont, Rhizobium etli, is structurally very different from that found in most enteric bacteria. The lipid A from free-living R. etli is structurally heterogeneous and exists as a mixture of species which are either pentaacylated or tetraacylated. In contrast, the lipid A from R. etli bacteroids is reported to consist exclusively of tetraacylated lipid A species. The tetraacylated lipid A species in both cases lack a β-hydroxymyristoyl chain at the 3-position of lipid A. Here, we show that the lipid A modification enzyme responsible for 3-O deacylation in R. etli is a homolog of the PagL protein originally described in Salmonella enterica sv. typhimurium. In contrast to the PagL proteins described from other species, R. etli PagL displays a calcium dependency. To determine the importance of the lipid A modification catalyzed by PagL, we isolated and characterized a R. etli mutant deficient in the pagL gene. Mass spectrometric analysis confirmed that the mutant strain was exclusively tetraacylated and radiochemical analysis revealed that 3-O deacylase activity was absent in membranes prepared from the mutant. The R. etli mutant was not impaired in its ability to form nitrogen-fixing nodules on Phaseolus vulgaris but it displayed slower nodulation kinetics relative to the wild-type strain. The lipid A modification catalyzed by R. etli PagL, therefore, is not required for nodulation but may play other roles such as protecting bacterial endosymbionts from plant immune responses during infection.	2012 Jul	Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Raetz, Christian R H; Raetz, CR; Raetz; Ingram, Brian O; Ingram, BO; Ingram	Biochim Biophys Acta
23805147	A re-sequencing based assessment of genomic heterogeneity and fast neutron-induced deletions in a common bean cultivar.	A small fast neutron (FN) mutant population has been established from Phaseolus vulgaris cv. Red Hawk. We leveraged the available P. vulgaris genome sequence and high throughput next generation DNA sequencing to examine the genomic structure of five P. vulgaris cv. Red Hawk FN mutants with striking visual phenotypes. Analysis of these genomes identified three classes of structural variation (SV); between cultivar variation, natural variation within the FN mutant population, and FN induced mutagenesis. Our analyses focused on the latter two classes. We identified 23 large deletions (>40 bp) common to multiple individuals, illustrating residual heterogeneity and regions of SV within the common bean cv. Red Hawk. An additional 18 large deletions were identified in individual mutant plants. These deletions, ranging in size from 40 bp to 43,000 bp, are potentially the result of FN mutagenesis. Six of the 18 deletions lie near or within gene coding regions, identifying potential candidate genes causing the mutant phenotype. 	2013	O'Rourke, Jamie A; O'Rourke, JA; O'Rourke; Iniguez, Luis P; Iniguez, LP; Iniguez; Bucciarelli, Bruna; Bucciarelli, B; Bucciarelli; Roessler, Jeffrey; Roessler, J; Roessler; Schmutz, Jeremy; Schmutz, J; Schmutz; McClean, Phillip E; McClean, PE; McClean; Jackson, Scott A; Jackson, SA; Jackson; Hernandez, Georgina; Hernandez, G; Hernandez; Graham, Michelle A; Graham, MA; Graham; Stupar, Robert M; Stupar, RM; Stupar; Vance, Carroll P; Vance, CP; Vance	Front Plant Sci
23785373	Buffet hypothesis for microbial nutrition at the rhizosphere.	An emphasis is made on the diversity of nutrients that rhizosphere bacteria may encounter derived from roots, soil, decaying organic matter, seeds, or the microbial community. This nutrient diversity may be considered analogous to a buffet and is contrasting to the hypothesis of oligotrophy at the rhizosphere. Different rhizosphere bacteria may have preferences for some substrates and this would allow a complex community to be established at the rhizosphere. To profit from diverse nutrients, root-associated bacteria should have large degrading capabilities and many transporters (seemingly inducible) that may be encoded in a significant proportion of the large genomes that root-associated bacteria have. Rhizosphere microbes may have a tendency to evolve toward generalists. We propose that many genes with unknown function may encode enzymes that participate in degrading diverse rhizosphere substrates. Knowledge of bacterial genes required for nutrition at the rhizosphere will help to make better use of bacteria as plant-growth promoters in agriculture.	2013	López-Guerrero, Martha G; López-Guerrero, MG; López-Guerrero; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Martinez-Romero, Julio; Martinez-Romero, J; Martinez-Romero; Martïnez-Romero, Esperanza; Martïnez-Romero, E; Martïnez-Romero	Front Plant Sci
23776535	Transcription factors in Escherichia coli prefer the holo conformation.	The transcriptional regulatory network of Escherichia coli K-12 is among the best studied gene networks of any living cell. Transcription factors bind to DNA either with their effector bound (holo conformation), or as a free protein (apo conformation) regulating transcription initiation. By using RegulonDB, the functional conformations (holo or apo) of transcription factors, and their mode of regulation (activator, repressor, or dual) were exhaustively analyzed. We report a striking discovery in the architecture of the regulatory network, finding a strong under-representation of the apo conformation (without allosteric metabolite) of transcription factors when binding to their DNA sites to activate transcription. This observation is supported at the level of individual regulatory interactions on promoters, even if we exclude the promoters regulated by global transcription factors, where three-quarters of the known promoters are regulated by a transcription factor in holo conformation. This genome-scale analysis enables us to ask what are the implications of these observations for the physiology and for our understanding of the ecology of E. coli. We discuss these ideas within the framework of the demand theory of gene regulation.	2013	Balderas-Martínez, Yalbi Itzel; Balderas-Martínez, YI; Balderas-Martínez; Savageau, Michael; Savageau, M; Savageau; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Pérez-Rueda, Ernesto; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda; Morett, Enrique; Morett, E; Morett; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	PLoS One
23785426	Analysis and prediction of pathways in HeLa cells by integrating biological levels of organization with systems-biology approaches.	It has recently begun to be considered that cancer is a systemic disease and that it must be studied at every level of complexity using many of the currently available approaches, including high-throughput technologies and bioinformatics. To achieve such understanding in cervical cancer, we collected information on gene, protein and phosphoprotein expression of the HeLa cell line and performed a comprehensive analysis of the different signaling pathways, transcription networks and metabolic events in which they participate. A total expression analysis by RNA-Seq of the HeLa cell line showed that 19,974 genes were transcribed. Of these, 3,360 were over-expressed, and 2,129 under-expressed when compared to the NHEK cell line. A protein-protein interaction network was derived from the over-expressed genes and used to identify central elements and, together with the analysis of over-represented transcription factor motifs, to predict active signaling and regulatory pathways. This was further validated by Metal-Oxide Affinity Chromatography (MOAC) and Tandem Mass Spectrometry (MS/MS) assays which retrieved phosphorylated proteins. The 14-3-3 family members emerge as important regulators in carcinogenesis and as possible clinical targets. We observed that the different over- and under-regulated pathways in cervical cancer could be interrelated through elements that participate in crosstalks, therefore belong to what we term "meta-pathways". Additionally, we highlighted the relations of each one of the differentially represented pathways to one or more of the ten hallmarks of cancer. These features could be maintained in many other types of cancer, regardless of mutations or genomic rearrangements, and favor their robustness, adaptations and the evasion of tissue control. Probably, this could explain why cancer cells are not eliminated by selective pressure and why therapy trials directed against molecular targets are not as effective as expected.	2013	Higareda-Almaraz, Juan Carlos; Higareda-Almaraz, JC; Higareda-Almaraz; Valtierra-Gutiérrez, Ilse A; Valtierra-Gutiérrez, IA; Valtierra-Gutiérrez; Hernandez-Ortiz, Magdalena; Hernandez-Ortiz, M; Hernandez-Ortiz; Contreras, Sandra; Contreras, S; Contreras; Hernandez, Erika; Hernandez, E; Hernandez; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara; Encarnacion, Sergio; Encarnacion, S; Encarnacion	PLoS One
23499616	Phylogenetic evidence of the transfer of nodZ and nolL genes from Bradyrhizobium to other rhizobia.	Nod factor modifications mediated by nodZ and nolL gene products (fucosylation and acetylation of fucose residues, respectively) were probably later acquisitions in the nodulation process. Novel phylogenetic analyses suggest that nodZ and nolL genes were transferred from Bradyrhizobium to other nodule bacteria. These bradyrhizobial genes are highly diverse while rhizobial, sinorhizobial and mesorhizobial nodZ and nolL genes are represented by few branches among those from bradyrhizobia. These genes in novel rhizobial backgrounds may have favored efficient nodulation in legume hosts commonly associated with Bradyrhizobium strains.	2013 Jun	Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis E; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Imperial, Juan; Imperial, J; Imperial; Rey, Luis; Rey, L; Rey; Ruiz-Argueso, Tomás; Ruiz-Argueso, T; Ruiz-Argueso; Martinez-Romero, Esperanza; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero	Mol Phylogenet Evol
22805783	Comparison of prominent Azospirillum strains in Azospirillum-Pseudomonas-Glomus consortia for promotion of maize growth.	Azospirillum are prominent plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) extensively used as phytostimulatory crop inoculants, but only few studies are dealing with Azospirillum-containing mixed inocula involving more than two microorganisms. We compared here three prominent Azospirillum strains as part of three-component consortia including also the PGPR Pseudomonas fluorescens F113 and a mycorrhizal inoculant mix composed of three Glomus strains. Inoculant colonization of maize was assessed by quantitative PCR, transcription of auxin synthesis gene ipdC (involved in phytostimulation) in Azospirillum by RT-PCR, and effects on maize by secondary metabolic profiling and shoot biomass measurements. Results showed that phytostimulation by all the three-component consortia was comparable, despite contrasted survival of the Azospirillum strains and different secondary metabolic responses of maize to inoculation. Unexpectedly, the presence of Azospirillum in the inoculum resulted in lower phytostimulation in comparison with the Pseudomonas-Glomus two-component consortium, but this effect was transient. Azospirillum's ipdC gene was transcribed in all treatments, especially with three-component consortia, but not with all plants and samplings. Inoculation had no negative impact on the prevalence of mycorrhizal taxa in roots. In conclusion, this study brought new insights in the functioning of microbial consortia and showed that Azospirillum-Pseudomonas-Glomus three-component inoculants may be useful in environmental biotechnology for maize growth promotion.	2013 May	Couillerot, Olivier; Couillerot, O; Couillerot; Ramírez-Trujillo, Augusto; Ramírez-Trujillo, A; Ramírez-Trujillo; Walker, Vincent; Walker, V; Walker; von Felten, Andreas; von Felten, A; von Felten; Jansa, Jan; Jansa, J; Jansa; Maurhofer, Monika; Maurhofer, M; Maurhofer; Défago, Geneviève; Défago, G; Défago; Prigent-Combaret, Claire; Prigent-Combaret, C; Prigent-Combaret; Comte, Gilles; Comte, G; Comte; Caballero-Mellado, Jesus; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Moënne-Loccoz, Yvan; Moënne-Loccoz, Y; Moënne-Loccoz	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol
23415482	Phenotypic tests in Rhizobium species description: an opinion and (a sympatric speciation) hypothesis.	Rhizobia seem to have large degradative and metabolic capabilities that allow them to grow on diverse soil and rhizospheric substances, many of which are still unknown. Rhizobial genome sequences encode numerous transporters for unknown substrates, and transcriptomic studies have revealed genes with unknown functions that are highly expressed in roots or rhizospheres. It is proposed here that some of these unknown-function genes may have roles in the assimilation of root or soil substances and that rhizobial speciation avoids nutrient competition. Phenotypic tests, as currently performed in taxonomy (mainly for carbon and nitrogen usage), seem to underestimate rhizobial catabolic capabilities and the differences among species. Furthermore, considering that many Rhizobium transporter and catabolism genes are plasmid-borne, the value of phenotypic results in taxonomic studies is questionable. Genomotaxonomy could soon become a robust basis for proposing novel rhizobial species.	2013 May	Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
23485966	The genomes of four tapeworm species reveal adaptations to parasitism.	Tapeworms (Cestoda) cause neglected diseases that can be fatal and are difficult to treat, owing to inefficient drugs. Here we present an analysis of tapeworm genome sequences using the human-infective species Echinococcus multilocularis, E. granulosus, Taenia solium and the laboratory model Hymenolepis microstoma as examples. The 115- to 141-megabase genomes offer insights into the evolution of parasitism. Synteny is maintained with distantly related blood flukes but we find extreme losses of genes and pathways that are ubiquitous in other animals, including 34 homeobox families and several determinants of stem cell fate. Tapeworms have specialized detoxification pathways, metabolism that is finely tuned to rely on nutrients scavenged from their hosts, and species-specific expansions of non-canonical heat shock proteins and families of known antigens. We identify new potential drug targets, including some on which existing pharmaceuticals may act. The genomes provide a rich resource to underpin the development of urgently needed treatments and control.	2013 Apr	Tsai, Isheng J; Tsai, IJ; Tsai; Zarowiecki, Magdalena; Zarowiecki, M; Zarowiecki; Holroyd, Nancy; Holroyd, N; Holroyd; Garciarrubio, Alejandro; Garciarrubio, A; Garciarrubio; Sánchez-Flores, Alejandro; Sánchez-Flores, A; Sánchez-Flores; Brooks, Karen L; Brooks, KL; Brooks; Tracey, Alan; Tracey, A; Tracey; Bobes, Raúl J; Bobes, RJ; Bobes; Fragoso, Gladis; Fragoso, G; Fragoso; Sciutto, Edda; Sciutto, E; Sciutto; Aslett, Martin; Aslett, M; Aslett; Beasley, Helen; Beasley, H; Beasley; Bennett, Hayley M; Bennett, HM; Bennett; Cai, Xuepeng; Cai, X; Cai; Camicia, Federico; Camicia, F; Camicia; Clark, Richard; Clark, R; Clark; Cucher, Marcela; Cucher, M; Cucher; De Silva, Nishadi; De Silva, N; De Silva; Day, Tim A; Day, TA; Day; Deplazes, Peter; Deplazes, P; Deplazes; Estrada, Karel; Estrada, K; Estrada; Fernández, Cecilia; Fernández, C; Fernández; Holland, Peter W H; Holland, PWH; Holland; Hou, Junling; Hou, J; Hou; Hu, Songnian; Hu, S; Hu; Huckvale, Thomas; Huckvale, T; Huckvale; Hung, Stacy S; Hung, SS; Hung; Kamenetzky, Laura; Kamenetzky, L; Kamenetzky; Keane, Jacqueline A; Keane, JA; Keane; Kiss, Ferenc; Kiss, F; Kiss; Koziol, Uriel; Koziol, U; Koziol; Lambert, Olivia; Lambert, O; Lambert; Liu, Kan; Liu, K; Liu; Luo, Xuenong; Luo, X; Luo; Luo, Yingfeng; Luo, Y; Luo; Macchiaroli, Natalia; Macchiaroli, N; Macchiaroli; Nichol, Sarah; Nichol, S; Nichol; Paps, Jordi; Paps, J; Paps; Parkinson, John; Parkinson, J; Parkinson; Pouchkina-Stantcheva, Natasha; Pouchkina-Stantcheva, N; Pouchkina-Stantcheva; Riddiford, Nick; Riddiford, N; Riddiford; Rosenzvit, Mara; Rosenzvit, M; Rosenzvit; Salinas, Gustavo; Salinas, G; Salinas; Wasmuth, James D; Wasmuth, JD; Wasmuth; Zamanian, Mostafa; Zamanian, M; Zamanian; Zheng, Yadong; Zheng, Y; Zheng; Taenia solium Genome Consortium; Cai, Jianping; Cai, J; Cai; Soberón, Xavier; Soberón, X; Soberón; Olson, Peter D; Olson, PD; Olson; Laclette, Juan P; Laclette, JP; Laclette; Brehm, Klaus; Brehm, K; Brehm; Berriman, Matthew; Berriman, M; Berriman	Nature
23591845	Two common bean genotypes with contrasting response to phosphorus deficiency show variations in the microRNA 399-mediated PvPHO2 regulation within the PvPHR1 signaling pathway.	Crop production of the important legume, the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris), is often limited by low phosphorus (P) in the soil. The genotypes, BAT477 and DOR364, of the common bean have contrasting responses to P starvation. Plants from the BAT477 P deficiency tolerant genotype showed higher phosphate content and root biomass as compared to the DOR364 plants under P starvation. The PvPHR1 transcription factor-signaling pathway plays an essential role in the response to P starvation. PvPHO2, a negative regulator of this pathway, encodes an ubiquitin E2 conjugase that promotes degradation of P-responsive proteins and is the target gene of PvmiR399. PvPHO2 is downregulated in BAT477 plants under P deficiency, while such a response is not observed in P-starved DOR364 plants. Five putative PvmiR399 binding sites were identified in the 5' UTR region in both genotypes. While four sites showed an identical DNA sequence, the fifth (binding site of PvPHO2 one) showed three base changes and higher complementarity scores in DOR364 as compared to BAT477. Modified 5'RACE experiments indicated that PvmiR399 binding and/or processing was affected in DOR364 P-starved plants. We propose that a less efficient cleavage of the PvPHO2 mRNA directed by PvmiR399 would result in a higher PvPHO2-mediated degradation of P-responsive proteins in the DOR364 genotype with decreased P deficiency tolerance.	2013 Apr	Ramírez, Mario; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Flores-Pacheco, Gerardo; Flores-Pacheco, G; Flores-Pacheco; Reyes, José Luis; Reyes, JL; Reyes; Luzlvarez, Ana; Luzlvarez, A; Luzlvarez; Drevon, Jean Jacques; Drevon, JJ; Drevon; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	Int J Mol Sci
22958119	Agrobacteria lacking ornithine lipids induce more rapid tumour formation.	Ornithine lipids (OLs) are phosphorus-free membrane lipids that are widespread among Gram-negative bacteria. Their basic structure consists of a 3-hydroxy fatty acyl group attached in amide linkage to the α-amino group of ornithine and a second fatty acyl group ester-linked to the 3-hydroxy position of the first fatty acid. It has been shown that OLs can be hydroxylated within the amide-linked fatty acyl moiety, the secondary fatty acyl moiety or within the ornithine moiety. These modifications have been related to increased stress tolerance and symbiotic proficiency in different organisms such as Rhizobium tropici or Burkholderia cenocepacia. Analysing the membrane lipid composition of the plant pathogen Agrobacterium tumefaciens we noticed that it forms two different OLs. In the present work we studied if OLs play a role in stress tolerance and pathogenicity in A. tumefaciens. Mutants deficient in the OLs biosynthesis genes olsB or olsE were constructed and characterized. They either completely lack OLs (ΔolsB) or only form the unmodified OL (ΔolsE). Here we present a characterization of both OL mutants under stress conditions and in a plant transformation assay using potato tuber discs. Surprisingly, the lack of agrobacterial OLs promotes earlier tumour formation on the plant host.	2013 Mar	Vences-Guzmán, Miguel Ángel; Vences-Guzmán, MÁ; Vences-Guzmán; Guan, Ziqiang; Guan, Z; Guan; Bermúdez-Barrientos, José Roberto; Bermúdez-Barrientos, JR; Bermúdez-Barrientos; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	Environ Microbiol
23618716	Genome sequence of a novel archaeal fusellovirus assembled from the metagenome of a mexican hot spring.	The consensus genome sequence of a new member of the family Fuselloviridae designated as SMF1 (Sulfolobales Mexican fusellovirus 1) is presented. The complete circular genome was recovered from a metagenomic study of a Mexican hot spring. SMF1 exhibits an exceptional coding strand bias and a reduced set of fuselloviral core genes.	2013 Apr	Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis E; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Peng, Xu; Peng, X; Peng; Garrett, Roger A; Garrett, RA; Garrett; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Genome Announc
22922101	Phosphatidylcholine biosynthesis and function in bacteria.	Phosphatidylcholine (PC) is the major membrane-forming phospholipid in eukaryotes and is estimated to be present in about 15% of the domain Bacteria. Usually, PC can be synthesized in bacteria by either of two pathways, the phospholipid N-methylation (Pmt) pathway or the phosphatidylcholine synthase (Pcs) pathway. The three subsequent enzymatic methylations of phosphatidylethanolamine are performed by a single phospholipid N-methyltransferase in some bacteria whereas other bacteria possess multiple phospholipid N-methyltransferases each one performing one or several distinct methylation steps. Phosphatidylcholine synthase condenses choline directly with CDP-diacylglycerol to form CMP and PC. Like in eukaryotes, bacterial PC also functions as a biosynthetic intermediate during the formation of other biomolecules such as choline, diacylglycerol, or diacylglycerol-based phosphorus-free membrane lipids. Bacterial PC may serve as a specific recognition molecule but it affects the physicochemical properties of bacterial membranes as well. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Phospholipids and Phospholipid Metabolism.	2013 Mar	Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	Biochim Biophys Acta
23402340	Common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) PvTIFY orchestrates global changes in transcript profile response to jasmonate and phosphorus deficiency.	TIFY is a large plant-specific transcription factor gene family. A subgroup of TIFY genes named JAZ (Jasmonate-ZIM domain) has been identified as repressors of jasmonate (JA)-regulated transcription in Arabidopsis and other plants. JA signaling is involved in many aspects of plant growth/development and in defense responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. Here, we identified the TIFY genes (designated PvTIFY) from the legume common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) and functionally characterized PvTIFY10C as a transcriptional regulator.	2013 Feb	Aparicio-Fabre, Rosaura; Aparicio-Fabre, R; Aparicio-Fabre; Guillén, Gabriel; Guillén, G; Guillén; Loredo, Montserrat; Loredo, M; Loredo; Arellano, Jesús; Arellano, J; Arellano; Valdés-López, Oswaldo; Valdés-López, O; Valdés-López; Ramírez, Mario; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Iñiguez, Luis P; Iñiguez, LP; Iñiguez; Panzeri, Dario; Panzeri, D; Panzeri; Castiglioni, Bianca; Castiglioni, B; Castiglioni; Cremonesi, Paola; Cremonesi, P; Cremonesi; Strozzi, Francesco; Strozzi, F; Strozzi; Stella, Alessandra; Stella, A; Stella; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Sparvoli, Francesca; Sparvoli, F; Sparvoli; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	BMC Plant Biol
23280323	Native bradyrhizobia from Los Tuxtlas in Mexico are symbionts of Phaseolus lunatus (Lima bean).	Los Tuxtlas is the northernmost rain forest in North America and is rich in Bradyrhizobium with an unprecedented number of novel lineages. ITS sequence analysis of legumes in polycultures from Los Tuxtlas led to the identification of Phaseolus lunatus and Vigna unguiculata in addition to Phaseolus vulgaris as legumes associated with maize in crops. Bacterial diversity of isolates from nitrogen-fixing nodules of P. lunatus and V. unguiculata was revealed using ERIC-PCR and PCR-RFLP of rpoB genes, and sequencing of recA, nodZ and nifH genes. P. lunatus and V. unguiculata nodule bacteria corresponded to bradyrhizobia closely related to certain native bradyrhizobia from the Los Tuxtlas forest and novel groups were found. This is the first report of nodule bacteria from P. lunatus in its Mesoamerican site of origin and domestication.	2013 Feb	López-López, Aline; López-López, A; López-López; Negrete-Yankelevich, Simoneta; Negrete-Yankelevich, S; Negrete-Yankelevich; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Martínez, Julio; Martínez, J; Martínez; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
23405288	Genome sequence of a novel archaeal rudivirus recovered from a mexican hot spring.	We report the consensus genome sequence of a novel GC-rich rudivirus, designated SMR1 (Sulfolobales Mexican rudivirus 1), assembled from a high-throughput sequenced environmental sample from a hot spring in Los Azufres National Park in western Mexico.	2013 Jan	Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis E; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Peng, Xu; Peng, X; Peng; Garrett, Roger A; Garrett, RA; Garrett; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Genome Announc
23143106	EcoCyc: fusing model organism databases with systems biology.	EcoCyc (http://EcoCyc.org) is a model organism database built on the genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12 MG1655. Expert manual curation of the functions of individual E. coli gene products in EcoCyc has been based on information found in the experimental literature for E. coli K-12-derived strains. Updates to EcoCyc content continue to improve the comprehensive picture of E. coli biology. The utility of EcoCyc is enhanced by new tools available on the EcoCyc web site, and the development of EcoCyc as a teaching tool is increasing the impact of the knowledge collected in EcoCyc.	2013 Jan	Keseler, Ingrid M; Keseler, IM; Keseler; Mackie, Amanda; Mackie, A; Mackie; Peralta-Gil, Martin; Peralta-Gil, M; Peralta-Gil; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Bonavides-Martínez, César; Bonavides-Martínez, C; Bonavides-Martínez; Fulcher, Carol; Fulcher, C; Fulcher; Huerta, Araceli M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Kothari, Anamika; Kothari, A; Kothari; Krummenacker, Markus; Krummenacker, M; Krummenacker; Latendresse, Mario; Latendresse, M; Latendresse; Muñiz-Rascado, Luis; Muñiz-Rascado, L; Muñiz-Rascado; Ong, Quang; Ong, Q; Ong; Paley, Suzanne; Paley, S; Paley; Schröder, Imke; Schröder, I; Schröder; Shearer, Alexander G; Shearer, AG; Shearer; Subhraveti, Pallavi; Subhraveti, P; Subhraveti; Travers, Mike; Travers, M; Travers; Weerasinghe, Deepika; Weerasinghe, D; Weerasinghe; Weiss, Verena; Weiss, V; Weiss; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Gunsalus, Robert P; Gunsalus, RP; Gunsalus; Paulsen, Ian; Paulsen, I; Paulsen; Karp, Peter D; Karp, PD; Karp	Nucleic Acids Res
23405365	Genome Sequence of the Acidophilic Bacterium Acidocella sp. Strain MX-AZ02.	Here, we report the draft genome sequence of Acidocella sp. strain MX-AZ02, an acidophilic and heterotrophic alphaproteobacterium isolated from a geothermal lake in western Mexico.	2013 Jan	Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis E; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Garrett, Roger A; Garrett, RA; Garrett; Amils, Ricardo; Amils, R; Amils; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Genome Announc
23104406	Gut and root microbiota commonalities.	Animal guts and plant roots have absorption roles for nutrient uptake and converge in harboring large, complex, and dynamic groups of microbes that participate in degradation or modification of nutrients and other substances. Gut and root bacteria regulate host gene expression, provide metabolic capabilities, essential nutrients, and protection against pathogens, and seem to share evolutionary trends.	2013 Jan	Ramírez-Puebla, Shamayim T; Ramírez-Puebla, ST; Ramírez-Puebla; Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis E; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Jiménez-Marín, Berenice; Jiménez-Marín, B; Jiménez-Marín; Bolaños, Luis M; Bolaños, LM; Bolaños; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Martínez, Julio; Martínez, J; Martínez; Rogel, Marco Antonio; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Appl Environ Microbiol
22984892	Hydrocarbon-degrading potential of microbial communities from Arctic plants.	To explore rhizospheric microbial communities from Arctic native plant species evaluating their bacterial hydrocarbon-degrading capacities.	2013 Jan	Ferrera-Rodríguez, O; Ferrera-Rodríguez, O; Ferrera-Rodríguez; Greer, C W; Greer, CW; Greer; Juck, D; Juck, D; Juck; Consaul, L L; Consaul, LL; Consaul; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Whyte, L G; Whyte, LG; Whyte	J Appl Microbiol
23203884	RegulonDB v8.0: omics data sets, evolutionary conservation, regulatory phrases, cross-validated gold standards and more.	This article summarizes our progress with RegulonDB (http://regulondb.ccg.unam.mx/) during the past 2 years. We have kept up-to-date the knowledge from the published literature regarding transcriptional regulation in Escherichia coli K-12. We have maintained and expanded our curation efforts to improve the breadth and quality of the encoded experimental knowledge, and we have implemented criteria for the quality of our computational predictions. Regulatory phrases now provide high-level descriptions of regulatory regions. We expanded the assignment of quality to various sources of evidence, particularly for knowledge generated through high-throughput (HT) technology. Based on our analysis of most relevant methods, we defined rules for determining the quality of evidence when multiple independent sources support an entry. With this latest release of RegulonDB, we present a new highly reliable larger collection of transcription start sites, a result of our experimental HT genome-wide efforts. These improvements, together with several novel enhancements (the tracks display, uploading format and curational guidelines), address the challenges of incorporating HT-generated knowledge into RegulonDB. Information on the evolutionary conservation of regulatory elements is also available now. Altogether, RegulonDB version 8.0 is a much better home for integrating knowledge on gene regulation from the sources of information currently available.	2013 Jan	Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Peralta-Gil, Martin; Peralta-Gil, M; Peralta-Gil; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Muñiz-Rascado, Luis; Muñiz-Rascado, L; Muñiz-Rascado; García-Sotelo, Jair S; García-Sotelo, JS; García-Sotelo; Weiss, Verena; Weiss, V; Weiss; Solano-Lira, Hilda; Solano-Lira, H; Solano-Lira; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; Medina-Rivera, Alejandra; Medina-Rivera, A; Medina-Rivera; Salgado-Osorio, Gerardo; Salgado-Osorio, G; Salgado-Osorio; Alquicira-Hernández, Shirley; Alquicira-Hernández, S; Alquicira-Hernández; Alquicira-Hernández, Kevin; Alquicira-Hernández, K; Alquicira-Hernández; López-Fuentes, Alejandra; López-Fuentes, A; López-Fuentes; Porrón-Sotelo, Liliana; Porrón-Sotelo, L; Porrón-Sotelo; Huerta, Araceli M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Bonavides-Martínez, César; Bonavides-Martínez, C; Bonavides-Martínez; Balderas-Martínez, Yalbi I; Balderas-Martínez, YI; Balderas-Martínez; Pannier, Lucia; Pannier, L; Pannier; Olvera, Maricela; Olvera, M; Olvera; Labastida, Aurora; Labastida, A; Labastida; Jiménez-Jacinto, Verónica; Jiménez-Jacinto, V; Jiménez-Jacinto; Vega-Alvarado, Leticia; Vega-Alvarado, L; Vega-Alvarado; Del Moral-Chávez, Victor; Del Moral-Chávez, V; Del Moral-Chávez; Hernández-Alvarez, Alfredo; Hernández-Alvarez, A; Hernández-Alvarez; Morett, Enrique; Morett, E; Morett; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
22975386	The repAC replication system of the Rhizobium leguminosarum pRL7 plasmid is functional: implications regarding the origin and evolution of repABC plasmids.	The repABC replication/partitioning systems are commonly found in alpha-proteobacteria plasmids and in secondary chromosomes. All of the elements required for their replication and stable maintenance are encoded within a single transcription unit: the repABC operon. The repC gene encodes an initiator protein, while RepA, RepB and centromere-like sequence (parS) direct plasmid segregation. Strains containing two or more repABC plasmids are a common feature in some alpha proteobacteria groups, indicating that the repABC plasmid family embraces several incompatibility groups. Genes encoded within repABC operons are highly dynamic: each one possess its own distinctive phylogeny and homologous recombination events are common within these operons. Additionally, alpha-proteobacterial genomes contain repAB genes not associated with the ctRNA or with repC as well as plasmids whose replication depends on a ctRNA-repC module without the participation of repAB genes. Some alphaproteobacteria have repC genes clustered with other genes that are not involved in replication/partitioning functions. These atypical associations of genes could have an important role in the origin and diversification of new plasmids. Here we evaluated the functionality and possible evolutionary consequences of one of these atypical gene associations: the repAC genes present in the Rhizobium leguminosarum plasmid pRL7. The repAC genes are organized in an operon and they are capable of sustaining replication but in an unstable manner. RepC was essential for replication, and the origin of replication resides within its coding region. In contrast, RepA plays a minor role in the negative regulation of its own transcription.	2013 Jan	Pérez-Segura, Gabriela; Pérez-Segura, G; Pérez-Segura; Pérez-Oseguera, Angeles; Pérez-Oseguera, A; Pérez-Oseguera; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	Plasmid
22389284	Transfer of Wautersia numazuensis to the genus Cupriavidus as Cupriavidus numazuensis comb. nov.	Phylogenetic analysis of the 16S rRNA gene sequences of strains TE26(T) and K6 belonging to Wautersia numazuensis Kageyama et al. 2005 showed the strains to be deeply intermingled among the species of the genus Cupriavidus. The comparison showed that strain TE26(T) was closely related to the type strains of Cupriavidus pinatubonensis (99.1 % 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity), C. basilensis (98.7 %), C. necator (98.7 %) and C. gilardii (98.0 %). However, DNA-DNA hybridization experiments (less than 20 % relatedness) demonstrated that strain TE26(T) is different from these Cupriavidus species. A comparative phenotypic and chemotaxonomic analysis (based on fatty acid profiles) in combination with the 16S rRNA gene sequence phylogenetic analysis and the DNA-DNA hybridization results supported the incorporation of Wautersia numazuensis into the genus Cupriavidus as Cupriavidus numazuensis comb. nov.; the type strain is TE26(T) (=LMG 26411(T) =DSM 15562(T) = CIP 108892(T)).	2013 Jan	Martínez-Aguilar, Lourdes; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Estrada-de Los Santos, Paulina; Estrada-de Los Santos, P; Estrada-de Los Santos	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
23270491	Genomic basis of broad host range and environmental adaptability of Rhizobium tropici CIAT 899 and Rhizobium sp. PRF 81 which are used in inoculants for common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.).	Rhizobium tropici CIAT 899 and Rhizobium sp. PRF 81 are α-Proteobacteria that establish nitrogen-fixing symbioses with a range of legume hosts. These strains are broadly used in commercial inoculants for application to common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) in South America and Africa. Both strains display intrinsic resistance to several abiotic stressful conditions such as low soil pH and high temperatures, which are common in tropical environments, and to several antimicrobials, including pesticides. The genetic determinants of these interesting characteristics remain largely unknown.	2012 Dec	Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Menna, Pâmela; Menna, P; Menna; Almeida, Luiz Gonzaga P; Almeida, LG; Almeida; Ollero, Francisco Javier; Ollero, FJ; Ollero; Nicolás, Marisa Fabiana; Nicolás, MF; Nicolás; Pains Rodrigues, Elisete; Pains Rodrigues, E; Pains Rodrigues; Shigueyoshi Nakatani, Andre; Shigueyoshi Nakatani, A; Shigueyoshi Nakatani; Silva Batista, Jesiane Stefânia; Silva Batista, JS; Silva Batista; Oliveira Chueire, Ligia Maria; Oliveira Chueire, LM; Oliveira Chueire; Souza, Rangel Celso; Souza, RC; Souza; Ribeiro Vasconcelos, Ana Tereza; Ribeiro Vasconcelos, AT; Ribeiro Vasconcelos; Megías, Manuel; Megías, M; Megías; Hungria, Mariangela; Hungria, M; Hungria; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	BMC Genomics
24705077	Genome Sequence of Azospirillum brasilense CBG497 and Comparative Analyses of Azospirillum Core and Accessory Genomes provide Insight into Niche Adaptation.	Bacteria of the genus Azospirillum colonize roots of important cereals and grasses, and promote plant growth by several mechanisms, notably phytohormone synthesis. The genomes of several Azospirillum strains belonging to different species, isolated from various host plants and locations, were recently sequenced and published. In this study, an additional genome of an A. brasilense strain, isolated from maize grown on an alkaline soil in the northeast of Mexico, strain CBG497, was obtained. Comparative genomic analyses were performed on this new genome and three other genomes (A. brasilense Sp245, A. lipoferum 4B and Azospirillum sp. B510). The Azospirillum core genome was established and consists of 2,328 proteins, representing between 30% to 38% of the total encoded proteins within a genome. It is mainly chromosomally-encoded and contains 74% of genes of ancestral origin shared with some aquatic relatives. The non-ancestral part of the core genome is enriched in genes involved in signal transduction, in transport and in metabolism of carbohydrates and amino-acids, and in surface properties features linked to adaptation in fluctuating environments, such as soil and rhizosphere. Many genes involved in colonization of plant roots, plant-growth promotion (such as those involved in phytohormone biosynthesis), and properties involved in rhizosphere adaptation (such as catabolism of phenolic compounds, uptake of iron) are restricted to a particular strain and/or species, strongly suggesting niche-specific adaptation. 	2012 Sep	Wisniewski-Dyé, Florence; Wisniewski-Dyé, F; Wisniewski-Dyé; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Acosta-Cruz, Erika; Acosta-Cruz, E; Acosta-Cruz; Borland, Stéphanie; Borland, S; Borland; Drogue, Benoît; Drogue, B; Drogue; Prigent-Combaret, Claire; Prigent-Combaret, C; Prigent-Combaret; Rouy, Zoé; Rouy, Z; Rouy; Barbe, Valérie; Barbe, V; Barbe; Herrera, Alberto Mendoza; Herrera, AM; Herrera; González, Victor; González, V; González; Mavingui, Patrick; Mavingui, P; Mavingui	Genes (Basel)
23144400	Genome sequence of Rhizobium grahamii CCGE502, a broad-host-range symbiont with low nodulation competitiveness in Phaseolus vulgaris.	Here we present the genome sequence of Rhizobium grahamii CCGE502. R. grahamii groups with other newly described broad-host-range species, which are not very efficient Phaseolus vulgaris symbionts, with a wide geographic distribution and which constitutes a novel Rhizobium clade.	2012 Dec	Althabegoiti, M Julia; Althabegoiti, MJ; Althabegoiti; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Torres-Tejerizo, Gonzalo; Torres-Tejerizo, G; Torres-Tejerizo; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	J Bacteriol
22669633	Laboratory metabolic evolution improves acetate tolerance and growth on acetate of ethanologenic Escherichia coli under non-aerated conditions in glucose-mineral medium.	In this work, Escherichia coli MG1655 was engineered to produce ethanol and evolved in a laboratory process to obtain an acetate tolerant strain called MS04 (E. coli MG1655: ΔpflB, ΔadhE, ΔfrdA, ΔxylFGH, ΔldhA, PpflB::pdc                 (                   Zm                 )                 -adhB                 (                   Zm                 ), evolved). The growth and ethanol production kinetics of strain MS04 were determined in mineral medium, mainly under non-aerated conditions, supplemented with glucose in the presence of different concentrations of sodium acetate at pH 7.0 and at different values of acid pH and a constant concentration of sodium acetate (2 g/l). Results revealed an increase in the specific growth rate, cell mass formation, and ethanol volumetric productivity at moderate concentrations of sodium acetate (2-10 g/l), in addition to a high tolerance to acetate because it was able to grow and produce a high yield of ethanol in the presence of up to 40 g/l of sodium acetate. Genomic analysis of the ΔpflB evolved strain identified that a chromosomal deletion of 27.3 kb generates the improved growth and acetate tolerance in MG1655 ΔpflB derivative strains. This deletion comprises genes related to the respiration of nitrate, repair of alkylated DNA and synthesis of the ompC gene coding for porin C, cytochromes C, thiamine, and colonic acid. Strain MS04 is advantageous for the production of ethanol from hemicellulosic hydrolysates that contain acetate.	2012 Dec	Fernández-Sandoval, M T; Fernández-Sandoval, MT; Fernández-Sandoval; Huerta-Beristain, G; Huerta-Beristain, G; Huerta-Beristain; Trujillo-Martinez, B; Trujillo-Martinez, B; Trujillo-Martinez; Bustos, P; Bustos, P; Bustos; González, V; González, V; González; Bolivar, F; Bolivar, F; Bolivar; Gosset, G; Gosset, G; Gosset; Martinez, A; Martinez, A; Martinez	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol
22921315	Characterization of an influenza A virus in Mexican swine that is related to the A/H1N1/2009 pandemic clade.	In the spring of 2009, swine-origin influenza H1N1pdm09 viruses caused the first influenza pandemic of this century. We characterized the influenza viruses that circulated early during the outbreak in Mexico, including one newly sequenced swine H1N1pdm09 virus and three newly sequenced human H1N1pdm09 viruses that circulated in the outbreak of respiratory disease in La Gloria, Veracruz. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that the swine isolate (A/swine/Mexico/4/2009) collected in April 2009 is positioned in a branch that is basal to the rest of the H1N1pdm09 clade in two (NP and PA) of the eight single-gene trees. In addition, the concatenated HA-NA and the complete whole-genome trees also showed a basal position for A/swine/Mexico/4/2009. Furthermore, this swine virus was found to share molecular traits with non-H1N1pdm09 H1N1 viral lineages. These results suggest that this isolate could potentially be the first one detected from a sister lineage closely related to the H1N1pdm09 viruses.	2012 Nov	Escalera-Zamudio, Marina; Escalera-Zamudio, M; Escalera-Zamudio; Cobián-Güemes, Georgina; Cobián-Güemes, G; Cobián-Güemes; de los Dolores Soto-del Río, María; de los Dolores Soto-del Río, M; de los Dolores Soto-del Río; Isa, Pavel; Isa, P; Isa; Sánchez-Betancourt, Iván; Sánchez-Betancourt, I; Sánchez-Betancourt; Parissi-Crivelli, Aurora; Parissi-Crivelli, A; Parissi-Crivelli; Martínez-Cázares, María Teresa; Martínez-Cázares, MT; Martínez-Cázares; Romero, Pedro; Romero, P; Romero; Velázquez-Salinas, Lauro; Velázquez-Salinas, L; Velázquez-Salinas; Huerta-Lozano, Belem; Huerta-Lozano, B; Huerta-Lozano; Nelson, Martha; Nelson, M; Nelson; Montero, Hilda; Montero, H; Montero; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; López, Susana; López, S; López; Arias, Carlos F; Arias, CF; Arias	Virology
23104370	Complete mitochondrial and plastid genomes of the green microalga Trebouxiophyceae sp. strain MX-AZ01 isolated from a highly acidic geothermal lake.	We report the complete organelle genome sequences of Trebouxiophyceae sp. strain MX-AZ01, an acidophilic green microalga isolated from a geothermal field in Mexico. This eukaryote has the remarkable ability to thrive in a particular shallow lake with emerging hot springs at the bottom, extremely low pH, and toxic heavy metal concentrations. Trebouxiophyceae sp. MX-AZ01 represents one of few described photosynthetic eukaryotes living in such a hostile environment. The organelle genomes of Trebouxiophyceae sp. MX-AZ01 are remarkable. The plastid genome sequence currently presents the highest G+C content for a trebouxiophyte. The mitochondrial genome sequence is the largest reported to date for the Trebouxiophyceae class of green algae. The analysis of the genome sequences presented here provides insight into the evolution of organelle genomes of trebouxiophytes and green algae.	2012 Nov	Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis E; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Eukaryot Cell
22994649	Evolutionary relationships of flavobacterial and enterobacterial endosymbionts with their scale insect hosts (Hemiptera: Coccoidea).	Flavobacteria and Enterobacteriaceae have been previously reported as scale insect endosymbionts. The purpose of this work was twofold: first, to screen different scale insect families for the presence of these endosymbionts by PCR analyses and second, to elucidate the history of cophylogeny between these bacteria and the insects by analysing a portion of 16S rRNA and 18S rRNA gene sequences by two reconciliation tools, CoRe-PA and Jane. From a survey of 27 scale insects within seven families, we identified Flavobacteria and Enterobacteriaceae as coexisting in ten species that belong to the Ortheziidae, Monophlebidae, Diaspididae and Coccidae families, and we frequently found two closely related enterobacteria harboured in the same individual. Analyses performed with CoRe-PA and Jane suggest that Flavobacteria from the scale insects analysed have a unique origin, except for Candidatus Brownia rhizoecola (Flavobacteria of Pseudococcidae, Phenacoccinae), which seems to come from a nonscale insect. Nevertheless, cospeciation between Flavobacteria and scale insects is suggested only within the families Monophlebidae, Ortheziidae and Diaspididae, and host switches seem to have occurred from the ancestors of Monophlebidae and Ortheziidae to insects from families Coccidae, Lecanodiaspididae, Eriococcidae and Pseudococcidae. Our analyses suggest that Enterobacteriaceae underwent more evolutionary events (losses, duplications and host switches), and their phylogenies showed a lower proportion of congruent nodes between host and bacteria, indicating a more relaxed relationship with scale insects compared with Flavobacteria.	2012 Nov	Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Sayavedra, L; Sayavedra, L; Sayavedra; Sámano-Sánchez, H; Sámano-Sánchez, H; Sámano-Sánchez; Roth, A; Roth, A; Roth; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	J Evol Biol
22809273	FxkR provides the missing link in the fixL-fixK signal transduction cascade in Rhizobium etli CFN42.	Transcriptional control of the fixK gene in Rhizobium etli and R. leguminosarum bv. viciae is governed by a two-component signal transduction system that diverts from the conventional FixL-FixJ cascade that occurs in model rhizobia. Although a fixL gene, encoding a hybrid histidine kinase (hFixL), is present in R. etli, no fixJ, the cognate response regulator, has been identified. In this work, we present evidence that the pRet42f-located open reading frame RHE_PF00530 (fxkR) encodes a novel response regulator indispensable for fixKf activation under microaerobic growth. Moreover, results from complementation assays demonstrate that the activation of fixKf expression requires the presence of both hFixL and FxkR, and that the fxkR ortholog from R. leguminosarum bv. viciae is able to substitute for FxkR transcriptional control in R. etli. In addition, in these two organisms, hFixL- and FxkR-related proteins were identified in other bacteria, located in close proximity to a fixK-related gene. Using reporter fusions, site-directed mutagenesis, and electrophoretic mobility shift assays, we identified the FxkR binding site upstream from the transcriptional start site of fixKf. Similar to our previous observations for fixL and fixKf mutants, a null mutation in fxkR does not affect the symbiotic effectiveness of the strain. Thus, our findings reveal that FxkR is the long-standing missing key regulator that allows the transduction of the microaerobic signal for the activation of the FixKf regulon.	2012 Nov	Zamorano-Sánchez, David; Zamorano-Sánchez, D; Zamorano-Sánchez; Reyes-González, Alma; Reyes-González, A; Reyes-González; Gómez-Hernández, Nicolás; Gómez-Hernández, N; Gómez-Hernández; Rivera, Patricia; Rivera, P; Rivera; Georgellis, Dimitris; Georgellis, D; Georgellis; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
23105056	Genome sequence of Rhizobium sp. strain CCGE510, a symbiont isolated from nodules of the endangered wild bean Phaseolus albescens.	We present the genome sequence of Rhizobium sp. strain CCGE510, a nitrogen fixing bacterium taxonomically affiliated with the R. leguminosarum-R. etli group, isolated from wild Phaseolus albescens nodules grown in native pine forests in western Mexico. P. albescens is an endangered bean species phylogenetically related to P. vulgaris. In spite of the close host relatedness, Rhizobium sp. CCGE510 does not establish an efficient symbiosis with P. vulgaris. This is the first genome of a Rhizobium symbiont from a Phaseolus species other than P. vulgaris, and it will provide valuable new insights about symbiont-host specificity.	2012 Nov	Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis E; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Delgado-Salinas, Alfonso; Delgado-Salinas, A; Delgado-Salinas; Martínez-Romero, Julio; Martínez-Romero, J; Martínez-Romero; Sánchez, Federico; Sánchez, F; Sánchez; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	J Bacteriol
22813963	Rhizobial extrachromosomal replicon variability, stability and expression in natural niches.	In bacteria, niche adaptation may be determined by mobile extrachromosomal elements. A remarkable characteristic of Rhizobium and Ensifer (Sinorhizobium) but also of Agrobacterium species is that almost half of the genome is contained in several large extrachromosomal replicons (ERs). They encode a plethora of functions, some of them required for bacterial survival, niche adaptation, plasmid transfer or stability. In spite of this, plasmid loss is common in rhizobia upon subculturing. Rhizobial gene-expression studies in plant rhizospheres with novel results from transcriptomic analysis of Rhizobium phaseoli in maize and Phaseolus vulgaris roots highlight the role of ERs in natural niches and allowed the identification of common extrachromosomal genes expressed in association with plant rootlets and the replicons involved.	2012 Nov	López-Guerrero, Martha G; López-Guerrero, MG; López-Guerrero; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Acosta, José Luis; Acosta, JL; Acosta; Mendoza-Vargas, Alfredo; Mendoza-Vargas, A; Mendoza-Vargas; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Ramírez, Miguel Angel; Ramírez, MA; Ramírez; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Martínez-Romero, Julio; Martínez-Romero, J; Martínez-Romero; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Plasmid
22728391	Prokaryotic regulatory systems biology: Common principles governing the functional architectures of Bacillus subtilis and Escherichia coli unveiled by the natural decomposition approach.	Escherichia coli and Bacillus subtilis are two of the best-studied prokaryotic model organisms. Previous analyses of their transcriptional regulatory networks have shown that they exhibit high plasticity during evolution and suggested that both converge to scale-free-like structures. Nevertheless, beyond this suggestion, no analyses have been carried out to identify the common systems-level components and principles governing these organisms. Here we show that these two phylogenetically distant organisms follow a set of common novel biologically consistent systems principles revealed by the mathematically and biologically founded natural decomposition approach. The discovered common functional architecture is a diamond-shaped, matryoshka-like, three-layer (coordination, processing, and integration) hierarchy exhibiting feedback, which is shaped by four systems-level components: global transcription factors (global TFs), locally autonomous modules, basal machinery and intermodular genes. The first mathematical criterion to identify global TFs, the κ-value, was reassessed on B. subtilis and confirmed its high predictive power by identifying all the previously reported, plus three potential, master regulators and eight sigma factors. The functionally conserved cores of modules, basal cell machinery, and a set of non-orthologous common physiological global responses were identified via both orthologous genes and non-orthologous conserved functions. This study reveals novel common systems principles maintained between two phylogenetically distant organisms and provides a comparison of their lifestyle adaptations. Our results shed new light on the systems-level principles and the fundamental functions required by bacteria to sustain life.	2012 Oct	Freyre-González, Julio A; Freyre-González, JA; Freyre-González; Treviño-Quintanilla, Luis G; Treviño-Quintanilla, LG; Treviño-Quintanilla; Valtierra-Gutiérrez, Ilse A; Valtierra-Gutiérrez, IA; Valtierra-Gutiérrez; Gutiérrez-Ríos, Rosa María; Gutiérrez-Ríos, RM; Gutiérrez-Ríos; Alonso-Pavón, José A; Alonso-Pavón, JA; Alonso-Pavón	J Biotechnol
23209231	Draft genome sequence of the bean-nodulating Sinorhizobium fredii strain GR64.	Sinorhizobium fredii GR64 is a peculiar strain that is able to effectively nodulate bean but not soybean, the common host of S. fredii. Here we present the draft genome of S. fredii GR64. This information will contribute to a better understanding of the symbiotic rhizobium-plant interaction and of rhizobial evolution.	2012 Dec	Torres Tejerizo, Gonzalo; Torres Tejerizo, G; Torres Tejerizo; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom	J Bacteriol
23071431	Functional modules, structural topology, and optimal activity in metabolic networks.	Modular organization in biological networks has been suggested as a natural mechanism by which a cell coordinates its metabolic strategies for evolving and responding to environmental perturbations. To understand how this occurs, there is a need for developing computational schemes that contribute to integration of genomic-scale information and assist investigators in formulating biological hypotheses in a quantitative and systematic fashion. In this work, we combined metabolome data and constraint-based modeling to elucidate the relationships among structural modules, functional organization, and the optimal metabolic phenotype of Rhizobium etli, a bacterium that fixes nitrogen in symbiosis with Phaseolus vulgaris. To experimentally characterize the metabolic phenotype of this microorganism, we obtained the metabolic profile of 220 metabolites at two physiological stages: under free-living conditions, and during nitrogen fixation with P. vulgaris. By integrating these data into a constraint-based model, we built a refined computational platform with the capability to survey the metabolic activity underlying nitrogen fixation in R. etli. Topological analysis of the metabolic reconstruction led us to identify modular structures with functional activities. Consistent with modular activity in metabolism, we found that most of the metabolites experimentally detected in each module simultaneously increased their relative abundances during nitrogen fixation. In this work, we explore the relationships among topology, biological function, and optimal activity in the metabolism of R. etli through an integrative analysis based on modeling and metabolome data. Our findings suggest that the metabolic activity during nitrogen fixation is supported by interacting structural modules that correlate with three functional classifications: nucleic acids, peptides, and lipids. More fundamentally, we supply evidence that such modular organization during functional nitrogen fixation is a robust property under different environmental conditions.	2012	Resendis-Antonio, Osbaldo; Resendis-Antonio, O; Resendis-Antonio; Hernández, Magdalena; Hernández, M; Hernández; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación	PLoS Comput Biol
23209196	Genome sequences of Burkholderia sp. strains CCGE1002 and H160, isolated from legume nodules in Mexico and Brazil.	The genome sequences of Burkholderia sp. strains CCGE1002 from Mexico and H160 from Brazil, isolated from legume nodules, are reported. Their gene contents in relation to plant-microbe interactions and xenobiotic degradation are discussed.	2012 Dec	Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Chueire, Ligia Maria Oliveira; Chueire, LM; Chueire; Tiedje, James M; Tiedje, JM; Tiedje; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Hungria, Mariangela; Hungria, M; Hungria	J Bacteriol
22724388	Ornithine lipids and their structural modifications: from A to E and beyond.	Ornithine lipids (OLs) are phosphorus-free membrane lipids that are widespread in eubacteria, but absent from archaea and eukaryotes. They contain a 3-hydroxy fatty acyl group attached in amide linkage to the α-amino group of the amino acid ornithine. A second fatty acyl group is ester-linked to the 3-hydroxy position of the first fatty acid. About 25% of the bacterial species whose genomes have been sequenced are predicted to have the capacity to form OLs. Distinct OL hydroxylations have been described in the ester-linked fatty acid, the amide-linked fatty acid, and the ornithine moiety. These modifications often seem to form part of a bacterial stress response to changing environmental conditions, allowing the bacteria to adjust membrane properties by simply modifying already existing membrane lipids without the need to synthesize new lipids.	2012 Oct	Vences-Guzmán, Miguel Á; Vences-Guzmán, MÁ; Vences-Guzmán; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	FEMS Microbiol Lett
22609877	Sulfate uptake in photosynthetic Euglena gracilis. Mechanisms of regulation and contribution to cysteine homeostasis.	Sulfate uptake was analyzed in photosynthetic Euglena gracilis grown in sulfate sufficient or sulfate deficient media, or under Cd(2+) exposure or Cys overload, to determine its regulatory mechanisms and contribution to Cys homeostasis.	2012 Oct	García-García, Jorge Donato; García-García, JD; García-García; Olin-Sandoval, Viridiana; Olin-Sandoval, V; Olin-Sandoval; Saavedra, Emma; Saavedra, E; Saavedra; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Moreno-Sánchez, Rafael; Moreno-Sánchez, R; Moreno-Sánchez	Biochim Biophys Acta
22554028	Understanding microbial community diversity metrics derived from metagenomes: performance evaluation using simulated data sets.	Metagenomics holds the promise of greatly advancing the study of diversity in natural communities, but novel theoretical and methodological approaches must first be developed and adjusted for these data sets. We evaluated widely used macroecological metrics of taxonomic diversity on a simulated set of metagenomic samples, using phylogenetically meaningful protein-coding genes as ecological proxies. To our knowledge, this is the first approach of this kind to evaluate taxonomic diversity metrics derived from metagenomic data sets. We demonstrate that abundance matrices derived from protein-coding marker genes reproduce more faithfully the structure of the original community than those derived from SSU-rRNA gene. We also found that the most commonly used diversity metrics are biased estimators of community structure and differ significantly from their corresponding real parameters and that these biases are most likely caused by insufficient sampling and differences in community phylogenetic composition. Our results suggest that the ranking of samples using multidimensional metrics makes a good qualitative alternative for contrasting community structure and that these comparisons can be greatly improved with the incorporation of metrics for both community structure and phylogenetic diversity. These findings will help to achieve a standardized framework for community diversity comparisons derived from metagenomic data sets.	2012 Oct	Bonilla-Rosso, Germán; Bonilla-Rosso, G; Bonilla-Rosso; Eguiarte, Luis E; Eguiarte, LE; Eguiarte; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Travisano, Michael; Travisano, M; Travisano; Souza, Valeria; Souza, V; Souza	FEMS Microbiol Ecol
22906238	Detection of hssS, hssR, hrtA, and hrtB genes and their expression by hemin in  Staphylococcus epidermidis.	Staphylococcus aureus  employs a heme sensing system (HssR-HssS) and a heme-regulated transporter efflux pump (HrtA-HrtB) to avoid the accumulation of heme, which is toxic at high concentrations. The detoxification system to heme has not been studied in  Staphylococcus epidermidis . In this work, the hssR, hssS, hrtA, and hrtB genes were detected, and their expression when stimulated by hemin in S. epidermidis was explored. In silico genomic analyses exhibited that the genetic organization of the hssRS and hrtAB genes was identical in 11 Staphylococcus species analyzed, including S. epidermidis. Slight variations were found in their syntenic regions. The predicted secondary structure of HrtAB proteins from these species was almost identical to these of S. aureus. Additionally, hrtAB promoter sequences of some species were analyzed, and 1 or 2 different nucleotide substitutions were found in the downstream motif. Concentrations of hemin above 5 µmol/L inhibited S. epidermidis growth. However, S. epidermidis that was pre-exposed to a subinhibitory hemin concentration (1 µmol/L) was able to grow when inoculated into medium containing above 5 µmol/L hemin. The expression levels of hrtA and hrtB genes in S. epidermidis exhibited a significant difference when they were stimulated with hemin. Our results suggest that the HrtAB could be involved in hemin detoxification of S. epidermidis.	2012 Sep	Juárez-Verdayes, Marco A; Juárez-Verdayes, MA; Juárez-Verdayes; González-Uribe, Pilar M; González-Uribe, PM; González-Uribe; Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta; Rodríguez-Martínez, Sandra; Rodríguez-Martínez, S; Rodríguez-Martínez; Jan-Roblero, Janet; Jan-Roblero, J; Jan-Roblero; Escamilla-Hernández, Rosalba; Escamilla-Hernández, R; Escamilla-Hernández; Cancino-Diaz, Mario E; Cancino-Diaz, ME; Cancino-Diaz; Cancino-Diaz, Juan C; Cancino-Diaz, JC; Cancino-Diaz	Can J Microbiol
22511804	Enhanced expression of Rhizobium etli cbb₃ oxidase improves drought tolerance of common bean symbiotic nitrogen fixation.	To investigate the involvement of Rhizobium etli cbb(3) oxidase in the response of Phaseolus vulgaris to drought, common bean plants were inoculated with the R. etli strain, CFNX713, overexpressing this oxidase in bacteroids (cbb(3)(+)) and subjected to drought conditions. The negative effect of drought on plant and nodule dryweight, nitrogen content, and nodule functionality was more pronounced in plants inoculated with the wild-type (WT) strain than in those inoculated with the cbb(3)(+) strain. Regardless of the plant treatment, bacteroids produced by the cbb(3)(+) strain showed higher respiratory capacity than those produced by the WT strain. Inoculation of plants with the cbb(3)(+) strain alleviated the negative effect of a moderate drought on the respiratory capacity of bacteroids and the energy charge of the nodules. Expression of the FixP and FixO components of the cbb(3) oxidase was higher in bacteroids of the cbb(3)(+) strain than in those of the WT strain under all experimental conditions. The decline in sucrose synthase activity and the decrease in dicarboxylic acids provoked by moderate drought stress were more pronounced in nodules from plants inoculated with the WT strain than in those inoculated with the cbb(3)(+) strain. Taken together, these results suggest that inoculation of plants with a R. etli strain having enhanced expression of cbb(3) oxidase in bacteroids reduces the sensitivity of P. vulgaris-R. etli symbiosis to drought and can modulate carbon metabolism in nodules.	2012 Sep	Talbi, C; Talbi, C; Talbi; Sánchez, C; Sánchez, C; Sánchez; Hidalgo-Garcia, A; Hidalgo-Garcia, A; Hidalgo-Garcia; González, E M; González, EM; González; Arrese-Igor, C; Arrese-Igor, C; Arrese-Igor; Girard, L; Girard, L; Girard; Bedmar, E J; Bedmar, EJ; Bedmar; Delgado, M J; Delgado, MJ; Delgado	J Exp Bot
22858268	Rhizobium etli taxonomy revised with novel genomic data and analyses.	The taxonomic position of Phaseolus vulgaris rhizobial strains with available sequenced genomes was examined. Phylogenetic analyses with concatenated conserved genomic fragments accounting for over half of each genome showed that Rhizobium strains CIAT 652, Ch24-10 (newly reported genome) and CNPAF 512 constituted a well-supported group independent from Rhizobium etli CFN 42(T). DNA-DNA hybridization results indicated that CIAT 652, Ch24-10 and CNPAF 512 could correspond to R. etli, although the hybridization values were at the borderline that distinguishes different species. In contrast, experimental hybridization results were higher (over 80%) with Rhizobium phaseoli type strain ATCC 14482(T) in congruence to phylogenetic and ANIm analyses. The latter criterion allowed the reclassification of R. etli strains 8C-3 and Brasil5 as R. phaseoli. It was therefore concluded, based on all the evidence, that the CIAT 652, Ch24-10, and CNPAF 512 strains should be reclassified as R. phaseoli in spite of several common features linking them to R. etli. The R. phaseoli and R. etli speciation process seems to be a more recent event than the speciation that has occurred among other sister species, such as R. leguminosarum-R. etli or R. rhizogenes-R. tropici.	2012 Sep	López-Guerrero, Martha G; López-Guerrero, MG; López-Guerrero; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Velázquez, Encarna; Velázquez, E; Velázquez; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Acosta, José Luis; Acosta, JL; Acosta; Gónzalez, Victor; Gónzalez, V; Gónzalez; Martínez, Julio; Martínez, J; Martínez; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
22081714	Rhizobium grahamii sp. nov., from nodules of Dalea leporina, Leucaena leucocephala and Clitoria ternatea, and Rhizobium mesoamericanum sp. nov., from nodules of Phaseolus vulgaris, siratro, cowpea and Mimosa pudica.	Two novel related Rhizobium species, Rhizobium grahamii sp. nov. and Rhizobium mesoamericanum sp. nov., were identified by a polyphasic approach using DNA-DNA hybridization, whole-genome sequencing and phylogenetic and phenotypic characterization including nodulation of Leucaena leucocephala and Phaseolus vulgaris (bean). As similar bacteria were found in the Los Tuxtlas rainforest in Mexico and in Central America, we suggest the existence of a Mesoamerican microbiological corridor. The type strain of Rhizobium grahamii sp. nov. is CCGE 502(T) (= ATCC BAA-2124(T) = CFN 242(T) = Dal4(T) = HAMBI 3152(T)) and that of Rhizobium mesoamericanum sp. nov. is CCGE 501(T) (= ATCC BAA-2123(T) = HAMBI 3151(T) = CIP 110148(T) = 1847(T)).	2012 Sep	López-López, Aline; López-López, A; López-López; Rogel-Hernández, Marco A; Rogel-Hernández, MA; Rogel-Hernández; Barois, Isabelle; Barois, I; Barois; Ortiz Ceballos, Angel I; Ortiz Ceballos, AI; Ortiz Ceballos; Martínez, Julio; Martínez, J; Martínez; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
22836136	A complete workflow for the analysis of full-size ChIP-seq (and similar) data sets using peak-motifs.	This protocol explains how to use the online integrated pipeline 'peak-motifs' (http://rsat.ulb.ac.be/rsat/) to predict motifs and binding sites in full-size peak sets obtained by chromatin immunoprecipitation-sequencing (ChIP-seq) or related technologies. The workflow combines four time- and memory-efficient motif discovery algorithms to extract significant motifs from the sequences. Discovered motifs are compared with databases of known motifs to identify potentially bound transcription factors. Sequences are scanned to predict transcription factor binding sites and analyze their enrichment and positional distribution relative to peak centers. Peaks and binding sites are exported as BED tracks that can be uploaded into the University of California Santa Cruz (UCSC) genome browser for visualization in the genomic context. This protocol is illustrated with the analysis of a set of 6,000 peaks (8 Mb in total) bound by the Drosophila transcription factor Krüppel. The complete workflow is achieved in about 25 min of computational time on the Regulatory Sequence Analysis Tools (RSAT) Web server. This protocol can be followed in about 1 h.	2012 Jul	Thomas-Chollier, Morgane; Thomas-Chollier, M; Thomas-Chollier; Darbo, Elodie; Darbo, E; Darbo; Herrmann, Carl; Herrmann, C; Herrmann; Defrance, Matthieu; Defrance, M; Defrance; Thieffry, Denis; Thieffry, D; Thieffry; van Helden, Jacques; van Helden, J; van Helden	Nat Protoc
22318347	On the trail of EHEC/EAEC--unraveling the gene regulatory networks of human pathogenic Escherichia coli bacteria.	Pathogenic Escherichia coli, such as Enterohemorrhagic E. coli (EHEC) and Enteroaggregative E. coli (EAEC), are globally widespread bacteria. Some may cause the hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS). Varying strains cause epidemics all over the world. Recently, we observed an epidemic outbreak of a multi-resistant EHEC strain in Western Europe, mainly in Germany. The Robert Koch Institute reports >4300 infections and >50 deaths (July, 2011). Farmers lost several million EUR since the origin of infection was unclear. Here, we contribute to the currently ongoing research with a computer-aided study of EHEC transcriptional regulatory interactions, a network of genetic switches that control, for instance, pathogenicity, survival and reproduction of bacterial cells. Our strategy is to utilize knowledge of gene regulatory networks from the evolutionary relative E. coli K-12, a harmless strain mainly used for wet lab studies. In order to provide high-potential candidates for human pathogenic E. coli bacteria, such as EHEC, we developed the integrated online database and an analysis platform EhecRegNet. We utilize 3489 known regulations from E. coli K-12 for predictions of yet unknown gene regulatory interactions in 16 human pathogens. For these strains we predict 40,913 regulatory interactions. EhecRegNet is based on the identification of evolutionarily conserved regulatory sites within the DNA of the harmless E. coli K-12 and the pathogens. Identifying and characterizing EHEC's genetic control mechanism network on a large scale will allow for a better understanding of its survival and infection strategies. This will support the development of urgently needed new treatments. EhecRegNet is online via http://www.ehecregnet.de.	2012 Jul	Pauling, Josch; Pauling, J; Pauling; Röttger, Richard; Röttger, R; Röttger; Neuner, Andreas; Neuner, A; Neuner; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Kalaghatgi, Prabhav; Kalaghatgi, P; Kalaghatgi; Azevedo, Vasco; Azevedo, V; Azevedo; Tauch, Andreas; Tauch, A; Tauch; Pühler, Alfred; Pühler, A; Pühler; Baumbach, Jan; Baumbach, J; Baumbach	Integr Biol (Camb)
22738764	Cupriavidus alkaliphilus sp. nov., a new species associated with agricultural plants that grow in alkaline soils.	A group of 20 bacterial strains was isolated from the rhizosphere of different agricultural plants growing in alkaline soils in the northeast of Mexico. The phylogenetic analysis of the 16S rRNA gene sequence from four strains showed that this novel group belonged to the Cupriavidus genus, with C. taiwanensis (∼98.9%) and C. necator (∼98.8%) as the closest species. However, DNA-DNA reassociation values were less than 20%. The novel group did not fix nitrogen and lacked nifH and nodA genes, unlike C. taiwanensis. Whole-cell protein patterns were highly similar among the 20 strains but different from the closest Cupriavidus species. BOX-PCR patterns were distinct among the 20 strains but also differed from other Cupriavidus type species. The major cellular fatty acids from strains ASC-732(T) and SLV-2362 were C(16:0), C(18:1) ω7c/12t/9t and C(16:1) ω7c and/or C(15:0) iso 2OH. The major polar lipids consisted of phosphatidylglycerol, cardiolipin, phosphatidylethanolamine, 2-hydroxylated-phosphatidylethanolamine and an unknown aminolipid. The DNA G+C content of strain ASC-732(T) was 66.8mol%. All 20 strains grew in the presence of 5-10mgmL(-1) arsenic, 1mgmL(-1) zinc, and 0.1mgmL(-1) copper. Consequently, the group of strains was considered to represent a novel species for which the name Cupriavidus alkaliphilus sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is ASC-732(T) (=LMG 26294(T)=CIP 110330(T)).	2012 Jul	Estrada-de los Santos, Paulina; Estrada-de los Santos, P; Estrada-de los Santos; Martínez-Aguilar, Lourdes; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	Syst Appl Microbiol
22367406	Evolutionary genetics of the human Rh blood group system.	The evolutionary history of variation in the human Rh blood group system, determined by variants in the RHD and RHCE genes, has long been an unresolved puzzle in human genetics. Prior to medical treatments and interventions developed in the last century, the D-positive (RhD positive) children of D-negative (RhD negative) women were at risk for hemolytic disease of the newborn, if the mother produced anti-D antibodies following sensitization to the blood of a previous D-positive child. Given the deleterious fitness consequences of this disease, the appreciable frequencies in European populations of the responsible RHD gene deletion variant (for example, 0.43 in our study) seem surprising. In this study, we used new molecular and genomic data generated from four HapMap population samples to test the idea that positive selection for an as-of-yet unknown fitness benefit of the RHD deletion may have offset the otherwise negative fitness effects of hemolytic disease of the newborn. We found no evidence that positive natural selection affected the frequency of the RHD deletion. Thus, the initial rise to intermediate frequency of the RHD deletion in European populations may simply be explained by genetic drift/founder effect, or by an older or more complex sweep that we are insufficiently powered to detect. However, our simulations recapitulate previous findings that selection on the RHD deletion is frequency dependent and weak or absent near 0.5. Therefore, once such a frequency was achieved, it could have been maintained by a relatively small amount of genetic drift. We unexpectedly observed evidence for positive selection on the C allele of RHCE in non-African populations (on chromosomes with intact copies of the RHD gene) in the form of an unusually high F(                            ST                         ) value and the high frequency of a single haplotype carrying the C allele. RhCE function is not well understood, but the C/c antigenic variant is clinically relevant and can result in hemolytic disease of the newborn, albeit much less commonly and severely than that related to the D-negative blood type. Therefore, the potential fitness benefits of the RHCE C allele are currently unknown but merit further exploration.	2012 Jul	Perry, George H; Perry, GH; Perry; Xue, Yali; Xue, Y; Xue; Smith, Richard S; Smith, RS; Smith; Meyer, Wynn K; Meyer, WK; Meyer; Calışkan, Minal; Calışkan, M; Calışkan; Yanez-Cuna, Omar; Yanez-Cuna, O; Yanez-Cuna; Lee, Arthur S; Lee, AS; Lee; Gutiérrez-Arcelus, María; Gutiérrez-Arcelus, M; Gutiérrez-Arcelus; Ober, Carole; Ober, C; Ober; Hollox, Edward J; Hollox, EJ; Hollox; Tyler-Smith, Chris; Tyler-Smith, C; Tyler-Smith; Lee, Charles; Lee, C; Lee	Hum Genet
23113348	Polysaccharide-free nucleic acids and proteins of Abelmoschus esculentus for versatile molecular studies.	Abelmoschus esculentus (okra) is one of the polysaccharide rich crop plants. The polysaccharides interfere with nucleic acids and protein isolation thereby affecting the downstream molecular analysis. So, to understand the molecular systematics of okra, high quality DNA, RNA and proteins are essential. In this study we present a method for extracting genomic DNA, RNA and proteins from polysaccharide rich okra tissues. The conventional extraction procedures were integrated with purification treatments with pectinase, RNase and proteinase K, which improved the quality and quantity of DNA as well. Using SDS, additional washes with CIA and NaCl precipitation improved the RNA isolation both quantitatively and qualitatively. Finally, ammonium acetate mediated protein precipitation and re-solubilization increased the quality of total protein extracts from the okra leaves. All of the methods above not only eliminated the impurities but also improved the quality and quantity of nucleic acids and proteins. Further, we subjected these samples to versatile downstream molecular analyses such as restriction endonuclease digestion, RAPD, Southern, reverse transcription-PCR and Western analysis and were proved to be successful.	2012 Jul-Aug	Manoj-Kumar, A; Manoj-Kumar, A; Manoj-Kumar; Reddy, K N; Reddy, KN; Reddy; Manjulatha, M; Manjulatha, M; Manjulatha; Blanco, L; Blanco, L; Blanco	Mol Biol (Mosk)
22514263	Transfer of quinolone resistance gene qnrA1 to Escherichia coli through a 50 kb conjugative plasmid resulting from the splitting of a 300 kb plasmid.	To analyse the in vitro transfer of the qnrA1 gene by a 50 kb (pSZ50) self-transferable plasmid that derives from a 300 kb plasmid (pSZ300) and to determine the complete nucleotide sequence of plasmid pSZ50.	2012 Jul	Garza-Ramos, Ulises; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos; Barrios, Humberto; Barrios, H; Barrios; Hernandez-Vargas, Maria Jose; Hernandez-Vargas, MJ; Hernandez-Vargas; Rojas-Moreno, Teresa; Rojas-Moreno, T; Rojas-Moreno; Reyna-Flores, Fernando; Reyna-Flores, F; Reyna-Flores; Tinoco, Perla; Tinoco, P; Tinoco; Othon, Victor; Othon, V; Othon; Poirel, Laurent; Poirel, L; Poirel; Nordmann, Patrice; Nordmann, P; Nordmann; Cattoir, Vincent; Cattoir, V; Cattoir; Ruiz-Palacios, Guillermo; Ruiz-Palacios, G; Ruiz-Palacios; Fernandez, Jose Luis; Fernandez, JL; Fernandez; Santamaria, Rosa Isela; Santamaria, RI; Santamaria; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Castro, Natividad; Castro, N; Castro; Silva-Sanchez, Jesus; Silva-Sanchez, J; Silva-Sanchez	J Antimicrob Chemother
22192836	A Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1 acetylcholinesterase is encoded by the PA4921 gene and belongs to the SGNH hydrolase family.	Through the use of molecular and biochemical experiments and bioinformatic tools, this work demonstrates that the PA4921 gene of the Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1 genome is a gene responsible for cholinesterase (ChoE) activity. Similar to the acetylcholinesterase (AchE) of Zea mays, this ChoE belongs to the SGNH hydrolase family. In mature ChoE, i.e., without a signal peptide, (18)Ser, (78)Gly, (127)N, and (268)H are conserved aminoacyl residues. Acetylthiocholine (ATC) and propionylthiocholine (PTC) are substrates of this enzyme, but butyrylcholine is an inhibitor. The enzyme also catalyzes the hydrolysis of the artificial esters p-nitrophenyl propionate (pNPP) and p-nitrophenyl butyrate (pNPB) but with lower catalytic efficiency with respect to ATC or PTC. The second difference is that pNPP and pNPB did not produce inhibition at high substrate concentrations, as occurred with ATC and PTC. These differences plus preliminary biochemical and kinetic studies with alkylammonium compounds led us to propose that this enzyme is an acetylcholinesterase (AchE) or propionylcholinesterase. Studies performed with the purified recombinant enzyme indicated that the substrate saturation curves and the catalytic mechanism are similar to those properties described for mammalian AchEs. Therefore, the results of this work suggest that the P. aeruginosa ChoE is an AchE that may also be found in Pseudomonas fluorescens.	2012 Jun	Sánchez, Diego G; Sánchez, DG; Sánchez; Otero, Lisandro H; Otero, LH; Otero; Hernández, C Magdalena; Hernández, CM; Hernández; Serra, Ana L; Serra, AL; Serra; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Domenech, Carlos E; Domenech, CE; Domenech; Lisa, Angela T; Lisa, AT; Lisa	Microbiol Res
22685583	Metabolite adjustments in drought tolerant and sensitive soybean genotypes in response to water stress.	Soybean (Glycine max L.) is an important source of protein for human and animal nutrition, as well as a major source of vegetable oil. The soybean crop requires adequate water all through its growth period to attain its yield potential, and the lack of soil moisture at critical stages of growth profoundly impacts the productivity. In this study, utilizing (1)H NMR-based metabolite analysis combined with the physiological studies we assessed the effects of short-term water stress on overall growth, nitrogen fixation, ureide and proline dynamics, as well as metabolic changes in drought tolerant (NA5009RG) and sensitive (DM50048) genotypes of soybean in order to elucidate metabolite adjustments in relation to the physiological responses in the nitrogen-fixing plants towards water limitation. The results of our analysis demonstrated critical differences in physiological responses between these two genotypes, and identified the metabolic pathways that are affected by short-term water limitation in soybean plants. Metabolic changes in response to drought conditions highlighted pools of metabolites that play a role in the adjustment of metabolism and physiology of the soybean varieties to meet drought effects.	2012	Silvente, Sonia; Silvente, S; Silvente; Sobolev, Anatoly P; Sobolev, AP; Sobolev; Lara, Miguel; Lara, M; Lara	PLoS One
22065283	Isolation of the opdE gene that encodes for a new hydrolase of Enterobacter sp. capable of degrading organophosphorus pesticides.	Microbial enzymes that can hydrolyze organophosphorus compounds have been isolated, identified and characterized from different microbial species in order to use them in biodegradation of organophosphorus compounds. We isolated a bacterial strain Cons002 from an agricultural soil bacterial consortium, which can hydrolyze methyl-parathion (MP) and other organophosphate pesticides. HPLC analysis showed that strain Cons002 is capable of degrading pesticides MP, parathion and phorate. Pulsed-field gel electrophoresis and 16S rRNA amplification were performed for strain characterization and identification, respectively, showing that the strain Cons002 is related to the genus Enterobacter sp. which has a single chromosome of 4.6 Mb and has no plasmids. Genomic library was constructed from DNA of Enterobacter sp. Cons002. A gene called opdE (Organophosphate Degradation from Enterobacter) consists of 753 bp and encodes a protein of 25 kDa, which was isolated using activity methods. This gene opdE had no similarity to any genes reported to degrade organophosphates. When kanamycin-resistance cassette was placed in the gene opdE, hydrolase activity was suppressed and Enterobacter sp. Cons002 had no growth with MP as a nutrients source.	2012 Jun	Chino-Flores, Concepción; Chino-Flores, C; Chino-Flores; Dantán-González, Edgar; Dantán-González, E; Dantán-González; Vázquez-Ramos, Alejandra; Vázquez-Ramos, A; Vázquez-Ramos; Tinoco-Valencia, Raunel; Tinoco-Valencia, R; Tinoco-Valencia; Díaz-Méndez, Rafael; Díaz-Méndez, R; Díaz-Méndez; Sánchez-Salinas, Enrique; Sánchez-Salinas, E; Sánchez-Salinas; Castrejón-Godínez, Maria Luisa; Castrejón-Godínez, ML; Castrejón-Godínez; Ramos-Quintana, Fernando; Ramos-Quintana, F; Ramos-Quintana; Ortiz-Hernández, Maria Laura; Ortiz-Hernández, ML; Ortiz-Hernández	Biodegradation
22661980	MicroRNAs as regulators in plant metal toxicity response.	Metal toxicity is a major stress affecting crop production. This includes metals that are essential for plants (copper, iron, zinc, manganese), and non-essential metals (cadmium, aluminum, cobalt, mercury). A primary common effect of high concentrations of metal such as aluminum, copper, cadmium, or mercury is root growth inhibition. Metal toxicity triggers the accumulation of reactive oxygen species leading to damage of lipids, proteins, and DNA. The plants response to metal toxicity involves several biological processes that require fine and precise regulation at transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are 21 nucleotide non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. A miRNA, incorporated into a RNA-induced silencing complex, promotes cleavage of its target mRNA that is recognized by an almost perfect base complementarity. In plants, miRNA regulation is involved in development and also in biotic and abiotic stress responses. We review novel advances in identifying miRNAs related to metal toxicity responses and their potential role according to their targets. Most of the targets for plant metal-responsive miRNAs are transcription factors. Information about metal-responsive miRNAs in different plants points to important regulatory roles of miR319, miR390, miR393, and miR398. The target of miR319 is the TCP transcription factor, implicated in growth control. miR390 exerts its action through the biogenesis of trans-acting small interference RNAs that, in turn, regulate auxin responsive factors. miR393 targets the auxin receptors TIR1/AFBs and a bHLH transcription factor. Increasing evidence points to the crucial role of miR398 and its targets Cu/Zn superoxide dismutases in the control of the oxidative stress generated after high copper or iron exposure.	2012	Mendoza-Soto, Ana B; Mendoza-Soto, AB; Mendoza-Soto; Sánchez, Federico; Sánchez, F; Sánchez; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	Front Plant Sci
22615881	Comparative proteomic analysis of Aedes aegypti larval midgut after intoxication with Cry11Aa toxin from Bacillus thuringiensis.	Cry toxins produced by Bacillus thuringiensis bacteria are environmentally safe alternatives to control insect pests. They are pore-forming toxins that specifically affect cell permeability and cellular integrity of insect-midgut cells. In this work we analyzed the defensive response of Aedes aegypti larva to Cry11Aa toxin intoxication by proteomic and functional genomic analyses. Two dimensional differential in-gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE) was utilized to analyze proteomic differences among A. aegypti larvae intoxicated with different doses of Cry11Aa toxin compared to a buffer treatment. Spots with significant differential expression (p<0.05) were then identified by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), revealing 18 up-regulated and seven down-regulated proteins. The most abundant subcategories of differentially expressed proteins were proteins involved in protein turnover and folding, energy production, and cytoskeleton maintenance. We selected three candidate proteins based on their differential expression as representatives of the different functional categories to perform gene silencing by RNA interference and analyze their functional role. The heat shock protein HSP90 was selected from the proteins involved in protein turnover and chaperones; actin, was selected as representative of the cytoskeleton protein group, and ATP synthase subunit beta was selected from the group of proteins involved in energy production. When we affected the expression of ATP synthase subunit beta and actin by silencing with RNAi the larvae became hypersensitive to toxin action. In addition, we found that mosquito larvae displayed a resistant phenotype when the heat shock protein was silenced. These results provide insight into the molecular components influencing the defense to Cry toxin intoxication and facilitate further studies on the roles of identified genes.	2012	Cancino-Rodezno, Angeles; Cancino-Rodezno, A; Cancino-Rodezno; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Oppert, Cris; Oppert, C; Oppert; Castro, Julieta I; Castro, JI; Castro; Lanz-Mendoza, Humberto; Lanz-Mendoza, H; Lanz-Mendoza; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Evans, Amy E; Evans, AE; Evans; Gill, Sarjeet S; Gill, SS; Gill; Soberón, Mario; Soberón, M; Soberón; Jurat-Fuentes, Juan L; Jurat-Fuentes, JL; Jurat-Fuentes; Bravo, Alejandra; Bravo, A; Bravo	PLoS One
22109095	Change in land use alters the diversity and composition of Bradyrhizobium communities and led to the introduction of Rhizobium etli into the tropical rain forest of Los Tuxtlas (Mexico).	Nitrogen-fixing bacteria of the Bradyrhizobium genus are major symbionts of legume plants in American tropical forests, but little is known about the effects of deforestation and change in land use on their diversity and community structure. Forest clearing is followed by cropping of bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) and maize as intercropped plants in Los Tuxtlas tropical forest of Mexico. The identity of bean-nodulating rhizobia in this area is not known. Using promiscuous trap plants, bradyrhizobia were isolated from soil samples collected in Los Tuxtlas undisturbed forest, and in areas where forest was cleared and land was used as crop fields or as pastures, or where secondary forests were established. Rhizobia were also trapped by using bean plants. Bradyrhizobium strains were classified into genospecies by dnaK sequence analysis supported by recA, glnII and 16S-23S rDNA IGS loci analyses. A total of 29 genospecies were identified, 24 of which did not correspond to any described taxa. A reduction in Bradyrhizobium diversity was observed when forest was turned to crop fields or pastures. Diversity seemed to recover to primary forest levels in secondary forests that derived from abandoned crop fields or pastures. The shifts in diversity were not related to soil characteristics but seemingly to the density of nodulating legumes present at each land use system (LUS). Bradyrhizobium community composition in soils was dependent on land use; however, similarities were observed between crop fields and pastures but not among forest and secondary forest. Most Bradyrhizobium genospecies present in forest were not recovered or become rare in the other LUS. Rhizobium etli was found as the dominant bean-nodulating rhizobia present in crop fields and pastures, and evidence was found that this species was introduced in Los Tuxtlas forest.	2012 May	Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Rogel-Hernández, Marco A; Rogel-Hernández, MA; Rogel-Hernández; Lloret, Lourdes; Lloret, L; Lloret; López-López, Aline; López-López, A; López-López; Martínez, Julio; Martínez, J; Martínez; Barois, Isabelle; Barois, I; Barois; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Microb Ecol
21805195	Potentially pathogenic nontuberculous mycobacteria found in aquatic systems. Analysis from a reclaimed water and water distribution system in Mexico City.	We investigated the presence of nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) in three Mexican aquatic systems to evaluate the prevalence with the distribution of NTM species. Key physicochemical parameters of the water samples were determined to find correlations with the species' distributions. We used multilocus sequence analysis (MLSA) based on hsp65, rpoB, and 16S rRNA fragments to determine their taxonomic affiliations. NTM were recovered from water distribution systems and reclaimed water from the Mexico City Metropolitan Area (MCMA). The isolated species were associated with a temperature of 21°C and pH >7.7. The phylogenetic analysis showed that eight of the 14 different NTM strains were unambiguously classifiable: Mycobacterium peregrinum, M. nonchromogenicum (2), M. smegmatis (2), M. fortuitum, M. avium ssp. hominissuis, M. arupense, M. gordonae, and M. chitae. One strain was tentatively identified as M. mantenni/ scrofulaceum and another strain was related to M. porcinum/M. septicum. All NTM species identified in the water distribution system were also detected in the reclaimed water, but some species from the reclaimed water were not found in the water distribution systems. Two of the identified species found in the reclaimed water, M. avium and M. fortuitum, are considered important human opportunistic pathogens.	2012 May	Castillo-Rodal, A I; Castillo-Rodal, AI; Castillo-Rodal; Mazari-Hiriart, M; Mazari-Hiriart, M; Mazari-Hiriart; Lloret-Sánchez, L T; Lloret-Sánchez, LT; Lloret-Sánchez; Sachman-Ruiz, B; Sachman-Ruiz, B; Sachman-Ruiz; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; López-Vidal, Y; López-Vidal, Y; López-Vidal	Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis
21742822	Reclassification of Rhizobium tropici type A strains as Rhizobium leucaenae sp. nov.	Rhizobium tropici is a well-studied legume symbiont characterized by high genetic stability of the symbiotic plasmid and tolerance to tropical environmental stresses such as high temperature and low soil pH. However, high phenetic and genetic variabilities among R. tropici strains have been largely reported, with two subgroups, designated type A and B, already defined within the species. A polyphasic study comprising multilocus sequence analysis, phenotypic and genotypic characterizations, including DNA-DNA hybridization, strongly supported the reclassification of R. tropici type A strains as a novel species. Type A strains formed a well-differentiated clade that grouped with R. tropici, Rhizobium multihospitium, Rhizobium miluonense, Rhizobium lusitanum and Rhizobium rhizogenes in the phylogenies of the 16S rRNA, recA, gltA, rpoA, glnII and rpoB genes. Several phenotypic traits differentiated type A strains from all related taxa. The novel species, for which the name Rhizobium leucaenae sp. nov. is proposed, is a broad host range rhizobium being able to establish effective root-nodule symbioses with Leucaena leucocephala, Leucaena esculenta, common beans (Phaseolus vulgaris) and Gliricidia sepium. Strain CFN 299(T) ( = USDA 9039(T) = LMG 9517(T) = CECT 4844(T) = JCM 21088(T) = IAM 14230(T) = SEMIA 4083(T) = CENA 183(T) = UMR1026(T) = CNPSo 141(T)) is designated the type strain of Rhizobium leucaenae sp. nov.	2012 May	Ribeiro, Renan Augusto; Ribeiro, RA; Ribeiro; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; López-López, Aline; López-López, A; López-López; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Barcellos, Fernando Gomes; Barcellos, FG; Barcellos; Martínez, Julio; Martínez, J; Martínez; Thompson, Fabiano Lopes; Thompson, FL; Thompson; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Hungria, Mariangela; Hungria, M; Hungria	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
22343301	Transcriptional regulation of the assT-dsbL-dsbI gene cluster in Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi IMSS-1 depends on LeuO, H-NS, and specific growth conditions.	The assT gene encodes an arylsulfate sulfotransferase, an enzyme that catalyzes sulfuryl transfer from phenolic sulfate to a phenolic acceptor. In Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi IMSS-1, the assT gene is located upstream of the dsbL and dsbI genes, which are involved in a disulfide bond formation required for its activation. The assT-dsbL-dsbI gene cluster forms an operon transcribed by a LeuO-dependent promoter, in rich medium A (MA). Interestingly, in the absence of cloned leuO and in a ΔleuO background, two transcription start sites were detected for assT and two for dsbL-dsbI in minimal medium. The H-NS nucleoid protein repressed the expression of the assT-dsbL-dsbI LeuO-dependent operon, as well as of the assT transcriptional units. Thus, the expression of the assT-dsbL-dsbI gene cluster depends on the global regulatory proteins LeuO and H-NS, as well as on specific growth conditions.	2012 May	Gallego-Hernández, A L; Gallego-Hernández, AL; Gallego-Hernández; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; De la Cruz, M A; De la Cruz, MA; De la Cruz; Olvera, L; Olvera, L; Olvera; Morett, E; Morett, E; Morett; Medina-Aparicio, L; Medina-Aparicio, L; Medina-Aparicio; Ramírez-Trujillo, J A; Ramírez-Trujillo, JA; Ramírez-Trujillo; Vázquez, A; Vázquez, A; Vázquez; Fernández-Mora, M; Fernández-Mora, M; Fernández-Mora; Calva, E; Calva, E; Calva	J Bacteriol
22513097	New insights into Escherichia coli metabolism: carbon scavenging, acetate metabolism and carbon recycling responses during growth on glycerol.	Glycerol has enhanced its biotechnological importance since it is a byproduct of biodiesel synthesis. A study of Escherichia coli physiology during growth on glycerol was performed combining transcriptional-proteomic analysis as well as kinetic and stoichiometric evaluations in the strain JM101 and certain derivatives with important inactivated genes.	2012 Jul	Martínez-Gómez, Karla; Martínez-Gómez, K; Martínez-Gómez; Flores, Noemí; Flores, N; Flores; Castañeda, Héctor M; Castañeda, HM; Castañeda; Martínez-Batallar, Gabriel; Martínez-Batallar, G; Martínez-Batallar; Hernández-Chávez, Georgina; Hernández-Chávez, G; Hernández-Chávez; Ramírez, Octavio T; Ramírez, OT; Ramírez; Gosset, Guillermo; Gosset, G; Gosset; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Bolivar, Francisco; Bolivar, F; Bolivar	Microb Cell Fact
22333179	Functional and topological analysis of phosphatidylcholine synthase from Sinorhizobium meliloti.	Phosphatidylcholine (PC) is the major membrane-forming phospholipid in eukaryotes and is estimated to be present in about 15% of eubacteria. It can be synthesized in bacteria by either of two pathways, the phospholipid N-methylation pathway or the phosphatidylcholine synthase (Pcs) pathway. Pcs belongs to the CDP-alcohol phosphotransferase superfamily and synthesizes PC and CMP in one step from CDP-diacylglycerol and choline. In this study, we aligned sequences of characterized Pcs enzymes to identify conserved amino acid residues. Alanine scanning mutagenesis was performed on 55 of these conserved residues. The mutation of nine residues caused a drastic to complete loss (<20% of wild type activity) of Pcs activity. Six of these essential residues were subjected to further mutagenesis studies replacing them by amino acids with similar properties or size. A topological analysis of sinorhizobial Pcs showed the presence of eight transmembrane helices, with the C- and N-terminus located in the cytoplasm. The majority of the conserved residues is predicted to be either located within the cytoplasmic loops or on the cytoplasmic side of the membrane which can be expected for an enzyme using one membrane-associated and one soluble substrate.	2012 Apr	Solís-Oviedo, Rosa L; Solís-Oviedo, RL; Solís-Oviedo; Martínez-Morales, Fernando; Martínez-Morales, F; Martínez-Morales; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	Biochim Biophys Acta
22408242	Whole-genome sequence of Wolbachia strain wAlbB, an endosymbiont of tiger mosquito vector Aedes albopictus.	Although bacteria of the genus Wolbachia induced significant extended phenotypes to infected hosts, most molecular mechanisms involved are still unknown. To gain insight into the bacterial genetic determinants, we sequenced the whole genome of Wolbachia wAlbB strain, a commensal obligate intracellular of the tiger mosquito Aedes albopictus.	2012 Apr	Mavingui, Patrick; Mavingui, P; Mavingui; Valiente Moro, Claire; Valiente Moro, C; Valiente Moro; Tran-Van, Van; Tran-Van, V; Tran-Van; Wisniewski-Dyé, Florence; Wisniewski-Dyé, F; Wisniewski-Dyé; Raquin, Vincent; Raquin, V; Raquin; Minard, Guillaume; Minard, G; Minard; Tran, Florence-Hélène; Tran, FH; Tran; Voronin, Denis; Voronin, D; Voronin; Rouy, Zoé; Rouy, Z; Rouy; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Barbe, Valérie; Barbe, V; Barbe; González, Víctor; González, V; González	J Bacteriol
21850446	Common features of environmental and potentially beneficial plant-associated Burkholderia.	The genus Burkholderia comprises more than 60 species isolated from a wide range of niches. Although they have been shown to be diverse and ubiquitously distributed, most studies have thus far focused on the pathogenic species due to their clinical importance. However, the increasing number of recently described Burkholderia species associated with plants or with the environment has highlighted the division of the genus into two main clusters, as suggested by phylogenetical analyses. The first cluster includes human, animal, and plant pathogens, such as Burkholderia glumae, Burkholderia pseudomallei, and Burkholderia mallei, as well as the 17 defined species of the Burkholderia cepacia complex, while the other, more recently established cluster comprises more than 30 non-pathogenic species, which in most cases have been found to be associated with plants, and thus might be considered to be potentially beneficial. Several species from the latter group share characteristics that are of use when associating with plants, such as a quorum sensing system, the presence of nitrogen fixation and/or nodulation genes, and the ability to degrade aromatic compounds. This review examines the commonalities in this growing subgroup of Burkholderia species and discusses their prospective biotechnological applications.	2012 Feb	Suárez-Moreno, Zulma Rocío; Suárez-Moreno, ZR; Suárez-Moreno; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Coutinho, Bruna G; Coutinho, BG; Coutinho; Mendonça-Previato, Lucia; Mendonça-Previato, L; Mendonça-Previato; James, Euan K; James, EK; James; Venturi, Vittorio; Venturi, V; Venturi	Microb Ecol
22156162	RSAT peak-motifs: motif analysis in full-size ChIP-seq datasets.	ChIP-seq is increasingly used to characterize transcription factor binding and chromatin marks at a genomic scale. Various tools are now available to extract binding motifs from peak data sets. However, most approaches are only available as command-line programs, or via a website but with size restrictions. We present peak-motifs, a computational pipeline that discovers motifs in peak sequences, compares them with databases, exports putative binding sites for visualization in the UCSC genome browser and generates an extensive report suited for both naive and expert users. It relies on time- and memory-efficient algorithms enabling the treatment of several thousand peaks within minutes. Regarding time efficiency, peak-motifs outperforms all comparable tools by several orders of magnitude. We demonstrate its accuracy by analyzing data sets ranging from 4000 to 1,28,000 peaks for 12 embryonic stem cell-specific transcription factors. In all cases, the program finds the expected motifs and returns additional motifs potentially bound by cofactors. We further apply peak-motifs to discover tissue-specific motifs in peak collections for the p300 transcriptional co-activator. To our knowledge, peak-motifs is the only tool that performs a complete motif analysis and offers a user-friendly web interface without any restriction on sequence size or number of peaks.	2012 Feb	Thomas-Chollier, Morgane; Thomas-Chollier, M; Thomas-Chollier; Herrmann, Carl; Herrmann, C; Herrmann; Defrance, Matthieu; Defrance, M; Defrance; Sand, Olivier; Sand, O; Sand; Thieffry, Denis; Thieffry, D; Thieffry; van Helden, Jacques; van Helden, J; van Helden	Nucleic Acids Res
22144154	Extracting regulatory networks of Escherichia coli from RegulonDB.	RegulonDB contains the largest and currently best-known data set on transcriptional regulation in a single free-living organism, that of Escherichia coli K-12 (Gama-Castro et al. Nucleic Acids Res 36:D120-D124, 2008). This organized knowledge has been the gold standard for the implementation of bioinformatic predictive methods on gene regulation in bacteria (Collado-Vides et al. J Bacteriol 191:23-31, 2009). Given the complexity of different types of interactions, the difficulty of visualizing in a single figure of the whole network, and the different uses of this knowledge, we are making available different views of the genetic network. This chapter describes case studies about how to access these views, via precomputed files, web services and SQL, including sigma-gene relationships corresponding to transcription of alternative RNA polymerase holoenzyme promoters; as well as, transcription factor (TF)-genes, TF-operons, TF-TF, and TF-regulon interactions. 17.	2012	Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; López-Fuentes, Alejandra; López-Fuentes, A; López-Fuentes; García-Sotelo, Jair Santiago; García-Sotelo, JS; García-Sotelo; Porrón-Sotelo, Liliana; Porrón-Sotelo, L; Porrón-Sotelo; Solano, Hilda; Solano, H; Solano; Muñiz-Rascado, Luis; Muñiz-Rascado, L; Muñiz-Rascado; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Methods Mol Biol
22242036	Characterization of outer membrane vesicles from Brucella melitensis and protection induced in mice.	The outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) from smooth B. melitensis 16 M and a derived rough mutant, VTRM1 strain, were purified and characterized with respect to protein content and induction of immune responses in mice. Proteomic analysis showed 29 proteins present in OMVs from B. melitensis 16 M; some of them are well-known Brucella immunogens such as SOD, GroES, Omp31, Omp25, Omp19, bp26, and Omp16. OMVs from a rough VTRM1 induced significantly higher expression of IL-12, TNFα, and IFNγ genes in bone marrow dendritic cells than OMVs from smooth strain 16 M. Relative to saline control group, mice immunized intramuscularly with rough and smooth OMVs were protected from challenge with virulent strain B. melitensis 16 M just as well as the group immunized with live strain B. melitensis Rev1 (P < 0.005). Additionally, the levels of serum IgG2a increased in mice vaccinated with OMVs from rough strain VTRM1 consistent with the induction of cell-mediated immunity.	2012	Avila-Calderón, Eric Daniel; Avila-Calderón, ED; Avila-Calderón; Lopez-Merino, Ahidé; Lopez-Merino, A; Lopez-Merino; Jain, Neeta; Jain, N; Jain; Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta; López-Villegas, Edgar Oliver; López-Villegas, EO; López-Villegas; Sriranganathan, Nammalwar; Sriranganathan, N; Sriranganathan; Boyle, Stephen M; Boyle, SM; Boyle; Witonsky, Sharon; Witonsky, S; Witonsky; Contreras-Rodríguez, Araceli; Contreras-Rodríguez, A; Contreras-Rodríguez	Clin Dev Immunol
22806790	Production of prodigiosin and chitinases by tropical Serratia marcescens strains with potential to control plant pathogens.	The potential of three Serratia marcescens strains (CFFSUR-B2, CFFSUR-B3 and CFFSUR-B4) isolated from tropical regions in Mexico to inhibit the mycelial growth and conidial germination of Colletotrichum gloeosporioides, causal agent of fruit anthracnose, was evaluated. The ability of these strains to produce prodigiosin and chitinases when cultivated in oil seed-based media (peanut, sesame, soybean and castor bean) and in Luria-Bertani medium was determined. All of the strains exhibited similar fungal antagonistic activities and inhibited myceliar growth by more than 40% while inhibiting conidial germination by 81-89% (P = 0.01). The highest level of prodigiosin (40 μg/ml) was produced in the peanut-based medium while growth in soybean-based medium allowed the highest production of chitinases (56 units/ml), independent of the strain used. Strain CFFSUR-B2 grown in peanut medium was used to evaluate the effect of inoculum density and initial pH on metabolite production. The amount of prodigiosin produced increased with greater inoculum densities, with an initial density of 1 × 10(12) resulting in the highest production (60 μg/ml). Prodigiosin production was not affected by pH. The strains studied have the advantage of being adapted to tropical climates and are able to produce chitinases in the absence of chitin induction in vitro. These characteristics suggest their potential as biocontrol agents for fungal pathogens in tropical regions of the world.	2012 Jan	Gutiérrez-Román, Martha Ingrid; Gutiérrez-Román, MI; Gutiérrez-Román; Holguín-Meléndez, Francisco; Holguín-Meléndez, F; Holguín-Meléndez; Bello-Mendoza, Ricardo; Bello-Mendoza, R; Bello-Mendoza; Guillén-Navarro, Karina; Guillén-Navarro, K; Guillén-Navarro; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Huerta-Palacios, Graciela; Huerta-Palacios, G; Huerta-Palacios	World J Microbiol Biotechnol
22194828	Mathematical modeling and validation of the ergosterol pathway in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The de novo biosynthetic machinery for both sphingolipid and ergosterol production in yeast is localized in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and Golgi. The interconnections between the two pathways are still poorly understood, but they may be connected in specialized membrane domains, and specific knockouts strongly suggest that both routes have different layers of mutual control and are co-affected by drugs. With the goal of shedding light on the functional integration of the yeast sphingolipid-ergosterol (SL-E) pathway, we constructed a dynamic model of the ergosterol pathway using the guidelines of Biochemical Systems Theory (BST) (Savageau., J. theor. Biol., 25, 365-9, 1969). The resulting model was merged with a previous mathematical model of sphingolipid metabolism in yeast (Alvarez-Vasquez et al., J. theor. Biol., 226, 265-91, 2004; Alvarez-Vasquez et al., Nature433, 425-30, 2005). The S-system format within BST was used for analyses of consistency, stability, and sensitivity of the SL-E model, while the GMA format was used for dynamic simulations and predictions. Model validation was accomplished by comparing predictions from the model with published results on sterol and sterol-ester dynamics in yeast. The validated model was used to predict the metabolomic dynamics of the SL-E pathway after drug treatment. Specifically, we simulated the action of drugs affecting sphingolipids in the endoplasmic reticulum and studied changes in ergosterol associated with microdomains of the plasma membrane (PM).	2011	Alvarez-Vasquez, Fernando; Alvarez-Vasquez, F; Alvarez-Vasquez; Riezman, Howard; Riezman, H; Riezman; Hannun, Yusuf A; Hannun, YA; Hannun; Voit, Eberhard O; Voit, EO; Voit	PLoS One
22216014	Azospirillum genomes reveal transition of bacteria from aquatic to terrestrial environments.	Fossil records indicate that life appeared in marine environments ∼3.5 billion years ago (Gyr) and transitioned to terrestrial ecosystems nearly 2.5 Gyr. Sequence analysis suggests that "hydrobacteria" and "terrabacteria" might have diverged as early as 3 Gyr. Bacteria of the genus Azospirillum are associated with roots of terrestrial plants; however, virtually all their close relatives are aquatic. We obtained genome sequences of two Azospirillum species and analyzed their gene origins. While most Azospirillum house-keeping genes have orthologs in its close aquatic relatives, this lineage has obtained nearly half of its genome from terrestrial organisms. The majority of genes encoding functions critical for association with plants are among horizontally transferred genes. Our results show that transition of some aquatic bacteria to terrestrial habitats occurred much later than the suggested initial divergence of hydro- and terrabacterial clades. The birth of the genus Azospirillum approximately coincided with the emergence of vascular plants on land.	2011 Dec	Wisniewski-Dyé, Florence; Wisniewski-Dyé, F; Wisniewski-Dyé; Borziak, Kirill; Borziak, K; Borziak; Khalsa-Moyers, Gurusahai; Khalsa-Moyers, G; Khalsa-Moyers; Alexandre, Gladys; Alexandre, G; Alexandre; Sukharnikov, Leonid O; Sukharnikov, LO; Sukharnikov; Wuichet, Kristin; Wuichet, K; Wuichet; Hurst, Gregory B; Hurst, GB; Hurst; McDonald, W Hayes; McDonald, WH; McDonald; Robertson, Jon S; Robertson, JS; Robertson; Barbe, Valérie; Barbe, V; Barbe; Calteau, Alexandra; Calteau, A; Calteau; Rouy, Zoé; Rouy, Z; Rouy; Mangenot, Sophie; Mangenot, S; Mangenot; Prigent-Combaret, Claire; Prigent-Combaret, C; Prigent-Combaret; Normand, Philippe; Normand, P; Normand; Boyer, Mickaël; Boyer, M; Boyer; Siguier, Patricia; Siguier, P; Siguier; Dessaux, Yves; Dessaux, Y; Dessaux; Elmerich, Claudine; Elmerich, C; Elmerich; Condemine, Guy; Condemine, G; Condemine; Krishnen, Ganisan; Krishnen, G; Krishnen; Kennedy, Ivan; Kennedy, I; Kennedy; Paterson, Andrew H; Paterson, AH; Paterson; González, Victor; González, V; González; Mavingui, Patrick; Mavingui, P; Mavingui; Zhulin, Igor B; Zhulin, IB; Zhulin	PLoS Genet
22203548	Cupriavidus and Burkholderia species associated with agricultural plants that grow in alkaline soils.	The presence of Burkholderia, Cupriavidus, and Ralstonia species in northeastern Mexico was investigated. An analysis of the root surrounding soil from different agricultural plants led to the isolation of Burkholderia and Cupriavidus species but no Ralstonia strains. Most Cupriavidus species were unknown and grouped into two clusters according to ARDRA profiles. The 16S rRNA sequence analysis showed that the Cupriavidus isolates were highly related among them and with different Cupriavidus species with validated names. However, SDS-PAGE profiles were distinct among the different ARDRA profiles and to other Cupriavidus species examined, suggesting new species in the genus. This shows that Cupriavidus is more widely associated with plants than previously appreciated. The BCC isolate was 99% similar to B. cenocepacia by recA sequence analysis. Additionally, most Cupriavidus strains from the two largest groups grew on media containing up to 0.1 mg/ml of copper, 10.0 mg/ml arsenic and 1.0 mg/ml zinc. Burkholderia strains grew on media containing up to 10.0 mg/ml zinc, 5.0 mg/ml arsenic and 0.1 mg/ml copper.	2011 Dec	Estrada-de Los Santos, Paulina; Estrada-de Los Santos, P; Estrada-de Los Santos; Vacaseydel-Aceves, Nora Belinda; Vacaseydel-Aceves, NB; Vacaseydel-Aceves; Martínez-Aguilar, Lourdes; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar; Cruz-Hernández, María Antonia; Cruz-Hernández, MA; Cruz-Hernández; Mendoza-Herrera, Alberto; Mendoza-Herrera, A; Mendoza-Herrera; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	J Microbiol
22203561	Molecular characterization of chloranilic acid degradation in Pseudomonas putida TQ07.	Pentachlorophenol is the most toxic and recalcitrant chlorophenol because both aspects are directly proportional to the halogenation degree. Biological and abiotic pentachlorophenol degradation generates p-chloranil, which in neutral to lightly alkaline environmental conditions is hydrolyzed to chloranilic acid that present a violet-reddish coloration in aqueous solution. Several genes of the degradation pathway, cadR-cadCDX, as well as other uncharacterized genes (ORF5 and 6), were isolated from a chloranilic acid degrading bacterium, Pseudomonas putida strain TQ07. The disruption by random mutagenesis of the cadR and cadC genes in TQ07 resulted in a growth deficiency in the presence of chloranilic acid, indicating that these genes are essential for TQ07 growth with chloranilic acid as the sole carbon source. Complementation assays demonstrated that a transposon insertion in mutant CAD82 (cadC) had a polar effect on other genes contained in cosmid pLG3562. These results suggest that at least one of these genes, cadD and cadX, also takes part in chloranilic acid degradation. Based on molecular modeling and function prediction, we strongly suggest that CadC is a pyrone dicarboxylic acid hydrolase and CadD is an aldolase enzyme like dihydrodipicolinate synthase. The results of this study allowed us to propose a novel pathway that offers hypotheses on chloranilic acid degradation (an abiotic by-product of pentachlorophenol) by means of a very clear phenotype that is narrowly related to the capability of Pseudomonas putida strain TQ07 to degrade this benzoquinone.	2011 Dec	Treviño-Quintanilla, Luis G; Treviño-Quintanilla, LG; Treviño-Quintanilla; Freyre-González, Julio A; Freyre-González, JA; Freyre-González; Guillén-Garcés, Rosa A; Guillén-Garcés, RA; Guillén-Garcés; Olvera, Clarita; Olvera, C; Olvera	J Microbiol
21592712	Characterization of a novel biosurfactant producing Pseudomonas koreensis lineage that is endemic to Cuatro Ciénegas Basin.	The aim of this work is the taxonomic characterization of three biosurfactant-producing bacterial isolates from the Churince system at Cuatro Ciénegas Basin (CCB) in the Mexican State of Coahuila, and the study of the possible role of biosurfactant production in their ecology and evolution. We determined that these isolates belong to a Pseudomonas koreensis lineage endemic to CCB, using standard taxonomical techniques, phylogenetic analysis of three chromosomal loci and phenotypic characterization. This new lineage has the distinct capacity to produce a biosurfactant when compared with previously reported P. koreensis isolates recovered from agricultural soils in Korea. We present evidence suggesting that the biosurfactant secreted by CCB P. koreensis strains is involved in their ability to compete with a CCB Exiguobacterium aurantiacum strain (m5-66) used as a model organism in competition experiments. Furthermore, the ethyl acetate extract of culture supernatant of CCB P. koreensis strains results in growth inhibition not only of E. aurantiacum m5-66, but also of a Bacillus subtilis type strain (ATCC6633). Based on these results we propose that the production of biosurfactant could be of ecological importance and could play a role in the separation of the P. koreensis CCB lineage.	2011 Nov	Toribio, Jeiry; Toribio, J; Toribio; Escalante, Ana E; Escalante, AE; Escalante; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; González-González, Andrea; González-González, A; González-González; Zavala, Sergio; Zavala, S; Zavala; Souza, Valeria; Souza, V; Souza; Soberón-Chávez, Gloria; Soberón-Chávez, G; Soberón-Chávez	Syst Appl Microbiol
21926226	FadD is required for utilization of endogenous fatty acids released from membrane lipids.	FadD is an acyl coenzyme A (CoA) synthetase responsible for the activation of exogenous long-chain fatty acids (LCFA) into acyl-CoAs. Mutation of fadD in the symbiotic nitrogen-fixing bacterium Sinorhizobium meliloti promotes swarming motility and leads to defects in nodulation of alfalfa plants. In this study, we found that S. meliloti fadD mutants accumulated a mixture of free fatty acids during the stationary phase of growth. The composition of the free fatty acid pool and the results obtained after specific labeling of esterified fatty acids with a Δ5-desaturase (Δ5-Des) were in agreement with membrane phospholipids being the origin of the released fatty acids. Escherichia coli fadD mutants also accumulated free fatty acids released from membrane lipids in the stationary phase. This phenomenon did not occur in a mutant of E. coli with a deficient FadL fatty acid transporter, suggesting that the accumulation of fatty acids in fadD mutants occurs inside the cell. Our results indicate that, besides the activation of exogenous LCFA, in bacteria FadD plays a major role in the activation of endogenous fatty acids released from membrane lipids. Furthermore, expression analysis performed with S. meliloti revealed that a functional FadD is required for the upregulation of genes involved in fatty acid degradation and suggested that in the wild-type strain, the fatty acids released from membrane lipids are degraded by β-oxidation in the stationary phase of growth.	2011 Nov	Pech-Canul, Ángel; Pech-Canul, Á; Pech-Canul; Nogales, Joaquina; Nogales, J; Nogales; Miranda-Molina, Alfonso; Miranda-Molina, A; Miranda-Molina; Álvarez, Laura; Álvarez, L; Álvarez; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Soto, María José; Soto, MJ; Soto; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara	J Bacteriol
21830951	Legume-nodulating betaproteobacteria: diversity, host range, and future prospects.	Rhizobia form specialized nodules on the roots of legumes (family Fabaceae) and fix nitrogen in exchange for carbon from the host plant. Although the majority of legumes form symbioses with members of genus Rhizobium and its relatives in class Alphaproteobacteria, some legumes, such as those in the large genus Mimosa, are nodulated predominantly by betaproteobacteria in the genera Burkholderia and Cupriavidus. The principal centers of diversity of these bacteria are in central Brazil and South Africa. Molecular phylogenetic studies have shown that betaproteobacteria have existed as legume symbionts for approximately 50 million years, and that, although they have a common origin, the symbiosis genes in both subclasses have evolved separately since then. Additionally, some species of genus Burkholderia, such as B. phymatum, are highly promiscuous, effectively nodulating several important legumes, including common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris). In contrast to genus Burkholderia, only one species of genus Cupriavidus (C. taiwanensis) has so far been shown to nodulate legumes. The recent availability of the genome sequences of C. taiwanensis, B. phymatum, and B. tuberum has paved the way for a more detailed analysis of the evolutionary and mechanistic differences between nodulating strains of alpha- and betaproteobacteria. Initial analyses of genome sequences have suggested that plant-associated Burkholderia spp. have lower G+C contents than Burkholderia spp. that are opportunistic human pathogens, thus supporting previous suggestions that the plant- and human-associated groups of Burkholderia actually belong in separate genera.	2011 Nov	Gyaneshwar, Prasad; Gyaneshwar, P; Gyaneshwar; Hirsch, Ann M; Hirsch, AM; Hirsch; Moulin, Lionel; Moulin, L; Moulin; Chen, Wen-Ming; Chen, WM; Chen; Elliott, Geoffrey N; Elliott, GN; Elliott; Bontemps, Cyril; Bontemps, C; Bontemps; Estrada-de Los Santos, Paulina; Estrada-de Los Santos, P; Estrada-de Los Santos; Gross, Eduardo; Gross, E; Gross; Dos Reis, Fabio Bueno; Dos Reis, FB; Dos Reis; Sprent, Janet I; Sprent, JI; Sprent; Young, J Peter W; Young, JP; Young; James, Euan K; James, EK; James	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
22004448	Genomic lineages of Rhizobium etli revealed by the extent of nucleotide polymorphisms and low recombination.	Most of the DNA variations found in bacterial species are in the form of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), but there is some debate regarding how much of this variation comes from mutation versus recombination. The nitrogen-fixing symbiotic bacteria Rhizobium etli is highly variable in both genomic structure and gene content. However, no previous report has provided a detailed genomic analysis of this variation at nucleotide level or the role of recombination in generating diversity in this bacterium. Here, we compared draft genomic sequences versus complete genomic sequences to obtain reliable measures of genetic diversity and then estimated the role of recombination in the generation of genomic diversity among Rhizobium etli.	2011 Oct	Acosta, José L; Acosta, JL; Acosta; Eguiarte, Luis E; Eguiarte, LE; Eguiarte; Santamaría, Rosa I; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; González, Víctor; González, V; González	BMC Evol Biol
21995705	Genetic relationships among Italian and Mexican maize-rhizosphere Burkholderia cepacia complex (BCC) populations belonging to Burkholderia cenocepacia IIIB and BCC6 group.	A close association between maize roots and Burkholderia cepacia complex (BCC) bacteria has been observed in different locations globally. In this study we investigated by MultiLocus Restriction Typing (MLRT) the genetic diversity and relationships among Burkholderia cenocepacia IIIB and BCC6 populations associated with roots of maize plants cultivated in geographically distant countries (Italy and Mexico), in order to provide new insights into their population structure, evolution and ecology.	2011 Oct	Bevivino, Annamaria; Bevivino, A; Bevivino; Costa, Barbara; Costa, B; Costa; Cantale, Cristina; Cantale, C; Cantale; Cesarini, Silvia; Cesarini, S; Cesarini; Chiarini, Luigi; Chiarini, L; Chiarini; Tabacchioni, Silvia; Tabacchioni, S; Tabacchioni; Caballero-Mellado, Jesus; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Dalmastri, Claudia; Dalmastri, C; Dalmastri	BMC Microbiol
21981907	Genomic and proteomic analyses of Mycobacterium bovis BCG Mexico 1931 reveal a diverse immunogenic repertoire against tuberculosis infection.	Studies of Mycobacterium bovis BCG strains used in different countries and vaccination programs show clear variations in the genomes and immune protective properties of BCG strains. The aim of this study was to characterise the genomic and immune proteomic profile of the BCG 1931 strain used in Mexico.	2011 Oct	Orduña, Patricia; Orduña, P; Orduña; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; de León, Samuel Ponce; de León, SP; de León; Arvizu, Adriana; Arvizu, A; Arvizu; Hernández-González, Ismael L; Hernández-González, IL; Hernández-González; Mendoza-Hernández, Guillermo; Mendoza-Hernández, G; Mendoza-Hernández; López-Vidal, Yolanda; López-Vidal, Y; López-Vidal	BMC Genomics
21970442	Sequence variability of Rhizobiales orthologs and relationship with physico-chemical characteristics of proteins.	Chromosomal orthologs can reveal the shared ancestral gene set and their evolutionary trends. Additionally, physico-chemical properties of encoded proteins could provide information about functional adaptation and ecological niche requirements.	2011 Oct	Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta; Guerrero, Gabriela; Guerrero, G; Guerrero; Aguilar, Alejandro; Aguilar, A; Aguilar; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	Biol Direct
21876154	Context-dependent individualization of nucleotides and virtual genomic hybridization allow the precise location of human SNPs.	We have entered the era of individual genomic sequencing, and can already see exponential progress in the field. It is of utmost importance to exclude false-positive variants from reported datasets. However, because of the nature of the used algorithms, this task has not been optimized to the required level of precision. This study presents a unique strategy for identifying SNPs, called COIN-VGH, that largely minimizes the presence of false-positives in the generated data. The algorithm was developed using the X-chromosome-specific regions from the previously sequenced genomes of Craig Venter and James Watson. The algorithm is based on the concept that a nucleotide can be individualized if it is analyzed in the context of its surrounding genomic sequence. COIN-VGH consists of defining the most comprehensive set of nucleotide strings of a defined length that map with 100% identity to a unique position within the human reference genome (HRG). Such set is used to retrieve sequence reads from a query genome (QG), allowing the production of a genomic landscape that represents a draft HRG-guided assembly of the QG. This landscape is analyzed for specific signatures that indicate the presence of SNPs. The fidelity of the variation signature was assessed using simulation experiments by virtually altering the HRG at defined positions. Finally, the signature regions identified in the HRG and in the QG reads are aligned and the precise nature and position of the corresponding SNPs are detected. The advantages of COIN-VGH over previous algorithms are discussed.	2011 Sep	Reyes, José; Reyes, J; Reyes; Gómez-Romero, Laura; Gómez-Romero, L; Gómez-Romero; Ibarra-Soria, Ximena; Ibarra-Soria, X; Ibarra-Soria; Palacios-Flores, Kim; Palacios-Flores, K; Palacios-Flores; Arriola, Luis R; Arriola, LR; Arriola; Wences, Alejandro; Wences, A; Wences; García, Delfino; García, D; García; Boege, Margareta; Boege, M; Boege; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; Flores, Margarita; Flores, M; Flores; Palacios, Rafael; Palacios, R; Palacios	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
21595554	Environmental mycobacteria: a threat to human health?	In many cases, bacterial pathogens are close relatives to nonpathogens. Pathogens seem to be limited lineages within nonpathogenic bacteria. Nonpathogenic isolates are generally more diverse and widespread in the environment and it is generally considered that environmental bacteria do not pose a risk to human health as clinical isolates do; this may not be the case with mycobacteria, but environmental mycobacteria have not been well studied. It is documented that several environmental mycobacteria constitute a source for human infections. Diverse mycobacterial environmental isolates are rarely involved in human disease. Environmental mycobacteria may have a role in degradation of different compounds. Environmental mycobacteria have had a long interaction with humans, maybe as long as the human species, and may have contributed to human evolution.	2011 Sep	Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Martinez-Romero, Julio C; Martinez-Romero, JC; Martinez-Romero; Reyes-Prieto, Mariana; Reyes-Prieto, M; Reyes-Prieto; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Martinez-Romero, Esperanza; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero	DNA Cell Biol
21801415	Systems biology of bacterial nitrogen fixation: high-throughput technology and its integrative description with constraint-based modeling.	Bacterial nitrogen fixation is the biological process by which atmospheric nitrogen is uptaken by bacteroids located in plant root nodules and converted into ammonium through the enzymatic activity of nitrogenase. In practice, this biological process serves as a natural form of fertilization and its optimization has significant implications in sustainable agricultural programs. Currently, the advent of high-throughput technology supplies with valuable data that contribute to understanding the metabolic activity during bacterial nitrogen fixation. This undertaking is not trivial, and the development of computational methods useful in accomplishing an integrative, descriptive and predictive framework is a crucial issue to decoding the principles that regulated the metabolic activity of this biological process.	2011 Jul	Resendis-Antonio, Osbaldo; Resendis-Antonio, O; Resendis-Antonio; Hernández, Magdalena; Hernández, M; Hernández; Salazar, Emmanuel; Salazar, E; Salazar; Contreras, Sandra; Contreras, S; Contreras; Batallar, Gabriel Martínez; Batallar, GM; Batallar; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación	BMC Syst Biol
21707055	The dioxygenase-encoding olsD gene from Burkholderia cenocepacia causes the hydroxylation of the amide-linked fatty acyl moiety of ornithine-containing membrane lipids.	Burkholderia cenocepacia is an important opportunistic pathogen, and one of the most striking features of the Burkholderia genus is the collection of polar lipids present in its membrane, including phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) and ornithine-containing lipids (OLs), as well as the 2-hydroxylated derivatives of PE and OLs (2-OH-PE and 2-OH-OLs, respectively), which differ from the standard versions by virtue of the presence of a hydroxyl group at C2 (2-OH) of an esterified fatty acyl residue. Similarly, a lipid A-esterified myristoyl group from Salmonella typhimurium can have a 2-hydroxy modification that is due to the LpxO enzyme. We thus postulated that 2-hydroxylation of 2-OH-OLs might be catalyzed by a novel dioxygenase homologue of LpxO. In B. cenocepacia, we have now identified two open reading frames (BCAM1214 and BCAM2401) homologous to LpxO from S. typhimurium. The introduction of bcam2401 (designated olsD) into Sinorhizobium meliloti leads to the formation of one new lipid and in B. cenocepacia of two new lipids. Surprisingly, the lipid modifications on OLs due to OlsD occur on the amide-linked fatty acyl chain. This is the first report of a hydroxyl modification of OLs on the amide-linked fatty acyl moiety. Formation of hydroxylated OLs occurs only when the biosynthesis pathway for nonmodified standard OLs is intact. The hydroxyl modification of OLs on the amide-linked fatty acyl moiety occurs only under acid stress conditions. An assay has been developed for the OlsD dioxygenase, and an initial characterization of the enzyme is presented.	2011 Jul	González-Silva, Napoleón; González-Silva, N; González-Silva; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Reyes-Lamothe, Rodrigo; Reyes-Lamothe, R; Reyes-Lamothe; Taylor, Adrian M; Taylor, AM; Taylor; Sumpton, David; Sumpton, D; Sumpton; Thomas-Oates, Jane; Thomas-Oates, J; Thomas-Oates; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	Biochemistry
21425924	PvRACK1 loss-of-function impairs cell expansion and morphogenesis in Phaseolus vulgaris L. root nodules.	Receptor for activated C kinase (RACK1) is a highly conserved, eukaryotic protein of the WD-40 repeat family. Its peculiar β-propeller structure allows its interaction with multiple proteins in various plant signal-transduction pathways, including those arising from hormone responses, development, and environmental stress. During Phaseolus vulgaris root development, RACK1 (PvRACK1) mRNA expression was induced by auxins, abscissic acid, cytokinin, and gibberellic acid. In addition, during P. vulgaris nodule development, PvRACK1 mRNA was highly accumulated at 12 to 15 days postinoculation, suggesting an important role after nodule meristem initiation and Rhizobium nodule infection. PvRACK1 transcript accumulation was downregulated by a specific RNA interference construct which was expressed in transgenic roots of composite plants of P. vulgaris inoculated with Rhizobium tropici. PvRACK1 downregulated transcript levels were monitored by quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction analysis in individual transgenic roots and nodules. We observed a clear phenotype in PvRACK1-knockdown nodules, in which nodule number and nodule cell expansion were impaired, resulting in altered nodule size. Microscopic analysis indicated that, in PvRACK1-knockdown nodules, infected and uninfected cells were considerably smaller (80 and 60%, respectively) than in control nodules. In addition, noninfected cells and symbiosomes in silenced nodules showed significant defects in membrane structure under electron microscopy analysis. These findings indicate that PvRACK1 has a pivotal role in cell expansion and in symbiosome and bacteroid integrity during nodule development.	2011 Jul	Islas-Flores, Tania; Islas-Flores, T; Islas-Flores; Guillén, Gabriel; Guillén, G; Guillén; Alvarado-Affantranger, Xóchitl; Alvarado-Affantranger, X; Alvarado-Affantranger; Lara-Flores, Miguel; Lara-Flores, M; Lara-Flores; Sánchez, Federico; Sánchez, F; Sánchez; Villanueva, Marco A; Villanueva, MA; Villanueva	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
21715389	RSAT 2011: regulatory sequence analysis tools.	RSAT (Regulatory Sequence Analysis Tools) comprises a wide collection of modular tools for the detection of cis-regulatory elements in genome sequences. Thirteen new programs have been added to the 30 described in the 2008 NAR Web Software Issue, including an automated sequence retrieval from EnsEMBL (retrieve-ensembl-seq), two novel motif discovery algorithms (oligo-diff and info-gibbs), a 100-times faster version of matrix-scan enabling the scanning of genome-scale sequence sets, and a series of facilities for random model generation and statistical evaluation (random-genome-fragments, random-motifs, random-sites, implant-sites, sequence-probability, permute-matrix). Our most recent work also focused on motif comparison (compare-matrices) and evaluation of motif quality (matrix-quality) by combining theoretical and empirical measures to assess the predictive capability of position-specific scoring matrices. To process large collections of peak sequences obtained from ChIP-seq or related technologies, RSAT provides a new program (peak-motifs) that combines several efficient motif discovery algorithms to predict transcription factor binding motifs, match them against motif databases and predict their binding sites. Availability (web site, stand-alone programs and SOAP/WSDL (Simple Object Access Protocol/Web Services Description Language) web services): http://rsat.ulb.ac.be/rsat/.	2011 Jul	Thomas-Chollier, Morgane; Thomas-Chollier, M; Thomas-Chollier; Defrance, Matthieu; Defrance, M; Defrance; Medina-Rivera, Alejandra; Medina-Rivera, A; Medina-Rivera; Sand, Olivier; Sand, O; Sand; Herrmann, Carl; Herrmann, C; Herrmann; Thieffry, Denis; Thieffry, D; Thieffry; van Helden, Jacques; van Helden, J; van Helden	Nucleic Acids Res
21718544	The replication origin of a repABC plasmid.	repABC operons are present on large, low copy-number plasmids and on some secondary chromosomes in at least 19 α-proteobacterial genera, and are responsible for the replication and segregation properties of these replicons. These operons consist, with some variations, of three genes: repA, repB, and repC. RepA and RepB are involved in plasmid partitioning and in the negative regulation of their own transcription, and RepC is the limiting factor for replication. An antisense RNA encoded between the repB-repC genes modulates repC expression.	2011 Jun	Cervantes-Rivera, Ramón; Cervantes-Rivera, R; Cervantes-Rivera; Pedraza-López, Francisco; Pedraza-López, F; Pedraza-López; Pérez-Segura, Gabriela; Pérez-Segura, G; Pérez-Segura; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	BMC Microbiol
21702991	The conjugative plasmid of a bean-nodulating Sinorhizobium fredii strain is assembled from sequences of two Rhizobium plasmids and the chromosome of a Sinorhizobium strain.	Bean-nodulating Rhizobium etli originated in Mesoamerica, while soybean-nodulating Sinorhizobium fredii evolved in East Asia. S. fredii strains, such as GR64, have been isolated from bean nodules in Spain, suggesting the occurrence of conjugative transfer events between introduced and native strains. In R. etli CFN42, transfer of the symbiotic plasmid (pRet42d) requires cointegration with the endogenous self-transmissible plasmid pRet42a. Aiming at further understanding the generation of diversity among bean nodulating strains, we analyzed the plasmids of S. fredii GR64: pSfr64a and pSfr64b (symbiotic plasmid).	2011 Jun	Cervantes, Laura; Cervantes, L; Cervantes; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Santamaría, Rosa Isela; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom	BMC Microbiol
21696634	Proteomic patterns of cervical cancer cell lines, a network perspective.	Cervical cancer is a major mortality factor in the female population. This neoplastic is an excellent model for studying the mechanisms involved in cancer maintenance, because the Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) is the etiology factor in most cases. With the purpose of characterizing the effects of malignant transformation in cellular activity, proteomic studies constitute a reliable way to monitor the biological alterations induced by this disease. In this contextual scheme, a systemic description that enables the identification of the common events between cell lines of different origins, is required to distinguish the essence of carcinogenesis.	2011 Jun	Higareda-Almaraz, Juan Carlos; Higareda-Almaraz, JC; Higareda-Almaraz; Enríquez-Gasca, María del Rocío; Enríquez-Gasca, Mdel R; Enríquez-Gasca; Hernández-Ortiz, Magdalena; Hernández-Ortiz, M; Hernández-Ortiz; Resendis-Antonio, Osbaldo; Resendis-Antonio, O; Resendis-Antonio; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara	BMC Syst Biol
21479798	Anaplerotic function of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase in Bradyrhizobium japonicum USDA110.	In bacteria, anaplerotic carbon fixation necessary for growth on carbon sources that are metabolized to three-carbon intermediates is provided by the activity of pyruvate carboxylase (PYC) and/or phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PPC). In contrast to other rhizobia, which encode only one of these enzymes in their genomes, Bradyrhizobium japonicum USDA110 encodes both. Streptavidin-HRP western blot analysis of B. japonicum extracts demonstrated the presence of a biotin-containing protein whose molecular mass was indistinguishable from those of PYCs produced by Sinorhizobium meliloti and Rhizobium etli. Sequence analysis of the possible B. japonicum PYC revealed the lack of a pyruvate binding site as well as other characteristics indicating that the enzyme is non-functional, and PPC activity, but not PYC activity, was detectible in extracts prepared from strain USDA110. A B. japonicum cosmid genomic library was used to clone the ppc by functional complementation of S. meliloti pyc mutant RmF991. S. meliloti RmF991-carrying plasmids containing the B. japonicum ppc regained the ability to grow with glucose as a carbon source and produced PPC activity. The cloned ppc gene was inactivated by insertion mutagenesis and recombined into the USDA110 genome. The resulting ppc mutant was essentially devoid of PPC activity and grew poorly with glucose as carbon source in comparison to the wild-type strain. These data indicate that B. japonicum utilizes PPC, and not PYC, as an anaplerotic enzyme for growth on carbon sources metabolized to three-carbon intermediates.	2011 Jun	Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn	Curr Microbiol
23761284	Predominant nifH transcript phylotypes related to Rhizobium rosettiformans in field-grown sugarcane plants and in Norway spruce.	Although some sugarcane cultivars may benefit substantially from biological nitrogen fixation (BNF), the responsible bacteria have been not identified yet. Here, we examined the active diazotrophic bacterial community in sugarcane roots from Africa and America by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR using broad-range nifH-specific primers. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) profiles obtained from sugarcane showed a low diversity at all sample locations with one phylotype amounting up to 100% of the nifH transcripts. This major phylotype has 93.9-99.6% DNA identity to the partial nifH sequence from a strain affiliated with Rhizobium rosettiformans. In addition, nifH transcripts of this phylotype were also detected in spruce roots sampled in Germany, where they made up 91% of nifH transcripts detected. In contrast, in control soil or shoot samples two distinct nifH transcript sequences distantly related to nifH from Sulfurospirillum multivorans or Bradyrhizobium elkanii, respectively, were predominant. These results suggest that R. rosettiformans is involved in root-associated nitrogen fixation with sugarcane and spruce, plants that do not form root-nodule symbioses.	2011 Jun	Burbano, Claudia Sofía; Burbano, CS; Burbano; Liu, Yuan; Liu, Y; Liu; Rösner, Kim Leonie; Rösner, KL; Rösner; Reis, Veronica Massena; Reis, VM; Reis; Caballero-Mellado, Jesus; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Reinhold-Hurek, Barbara; Reinhold-Hurek, B; Reinhold-Hurek; Hurek, Thomas; Hurek, T; Hurek	Environ Microbiol Rep
21569245	Transcriptional profiling of fetal hypothalamic TRH neurons.	During murine hypothalamic development, different neuroendocrine cell phenotypes are generated in overlapping periods; this suggests that cell-type specific developmental programs operate to achieve complete maturation. A balance between programs that include cell proliferation, cell cycle withdrawal as well as epigenetic regulation of gene expression characterizes neurogenesis. Thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) is a peptide that regulates energy homeostasis and autonomic responses. To better understand the molecular mechanisms underlying TRH neuron development, we performed a genome wide study of its transcriptome during fetal hypothalamic development.	2011 May	Guerra-Crespo, Magdalena; Guerra-Crespo, M; Guerra-Crespo; Pérez-Monter, Carlos; Pérez-Monter, C; Pérez-Monter; Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Gutiérrez-Rios, Rosa María; Gutiérrez-Rios, RM; Gutiérrez-Rios; Joseph-Bravo, Patricia; Joseph-Bravo, P; Joseph-Bravo; Pérez-Martínez, Leonor; Pérez-Martínez, L; Pérez-Martínez; Charli, Jean-Louis; Charli, JL; Charli	BMC Genomics
21310789	A comparative genome analysis of the RpoS sigmulon shows a high diversity of responses and origins.	The stationary-phase response mediated by the RpoS sigma factor (σ(S), σ³⁸) has been widely studied as a general mechanism of activation of highly diverse genes that maintain cell viability. In bacteria, genes for diverse functions have been associated with this response, showing that bacteria use a large number of functions to contend with adverse conditions in their environment. However, little is known about how the genes have been functionally recruited in diverse organisms. In this work, we address the analysis of genes regulated by σ(S), based on a comparative genomic-scale analysis considering four versatile bacterial species that represent different lifestyles and taxonomic groups, Escherichia coli K-12, Geobacter sulfurreducens, Borrelia burgdorferi and Bacillus subtilis, as well as the extent of conservation in bacterial genomes, as a means of assessing the evolution of this sigmulon across all organisms completely sequenced. The analysis presented here shows that genes associated with the σ(S) response have been recruited from diverse regulons to achieve a global response. In addition, and based on the distribution of orthologues, we show a group of genes that is highly conserved among all organisms, mainly associated with glycerol metabolism, as well as diverse functional genes recruited in a lineage-specific manner.	2011 May	Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Pérez-Rueda, Ernesto; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda	Microbiology (Reading)
21463532	Housekeeping genes essential for pantothenate biosynthesis are plasmid-encoded in Rhizobium etli and Rhizobium leguminosarum.	A traditional concept in bacterial genetics states that housekeeping genes, those involved in basic metabolic functions needed for maintenance of the cell, are encoded in the chromosome, whereas genes required for dealing with challenging environmental conditions are located in plasmids. Exceptions to this rule have emerged from genomic sequence data of bacteria with multipartite genomes. The genome sequence of R. etli CFN42 predicts the presence of panC and panB genes clustered together on the 642 kb plasmid p42f and a second copy of panB on plasmid p42e. They encode putative pantothenate biosynthesis enzymes (pantoate-β-alanine ligase and 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoate hydroxymethyltransferase, respectively). Due to their ubiquitous distribution and relevance in the central metabolism of the cell, these genes are considered part of the core genome; thus, their occurrence in a plasmid is noteworthy. In this study we investigate the contribution of these genes to pantothenate biosynthesis, examine whether their presence in plasmids is a prevalent characteristic of the Rhizobiales with multipartite genomes, and assess the possibility that the panCB genes may have reached plasmids by horizontal gene transfer.	2011 Apr	Villaseñor, Tomás; Villaseñor, T; Villaseñor; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; Dávalos, Araceli; Dávalos, A; Dávalos; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Los Santos, Alejandro García-de; Los Santos, AG; Los Santos	BMC Microbiol
21306854	Symbiovars in rhizobia reflect bacterial adaptation to legumes.	Legume specificity is encoded in rhizobial genetic elements that may be transferred among species and genera. Dissemination (by lateral transfer) of gene assemblies dictating host range accounts for the existence of the same biological variant (biovar) in distinct microbiological species. Different alternative biovars may exist in a single species expanding their adaptation to different niches (legume nodules). A review of all reported biovars is presented. Instead of the term biovar, symbiotic variant (symbiovar) is proposed as a parallel term to pathovar in pathogenic bacteria. Symbiovars should be determined based on the symbiotic capabilities in plant hosts, distinguished by the differences in host range and supported by symbiotic gene sequence information.	2011 Apr	Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Martinez Romero, Esperanza; Martinez Romero, E; Martinez Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
21205018	Hydroxylated ornithine lipids increase stress tolerance in Rhizobium tropici CIAT899.	Ornithine lipids (OLs) are widespread among Gram-negative bacteria. Their basic structure consists of a 3-hydroxy fatty acyl group attached in amide linkage to the α-amino group of ornithine and a second fatty acyl group ester-linked to the 3-hydroxy position of the first fatty acid. OLs can be hydroxylated within the secondary fatty acyl moiety and this modification has been related to increased stress tolerance. Rhizobium tropici, a nodule-forming α-proteobacterium known for its stress tolerance, forms four different OLs. Studies of the function of these OLs have been hampered due to lack of knowledge about their biosynthesis. Here we describe that OL biosynthesis increases under acid stress and that OLs are enriched in the outer membrane. Using a functional expression screen, the OL hydroxylase OlsE was identified, which in combination with the OL hydroxylase OlsC is responsible for the synthesis of modified OLs in R. tropici. Unlike described OL hydroxylations, the OlsE-catalysed hydroxylation occurs within the ornithine moiety. Mutants deficient in OlsE or OlsC and double mutants deficient in OlsC/OlsE were characterized. R. tropici mutants deficient in OlsC-mediated OL hydroxylation are more susceptible to acid and temperature stress. All three mutants lacking OL hydroxylases are affected during symbiosis.	2011 Mar	Vences-Guzmán, Miguel Á; Vences-Guzmán, MÁ; Vences-Guzmán; Guan, Ziqiang; Guan, Z; Guan; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; González-Silva, Napoleón; González-Silva, N; González-Silva; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	Mol Microbiol
21217003	Plasmids with a chromosome-like role in rhizobia.	Replicon architecture in bacteria is commonly comprised of one indispensable chromosome and several dispensable plasmids. This view has been enriched by the discovery of additional chromosomes, identified mainly by localization of rRNA and/or tRNA genes, and also by experimental demonstration of their requirement for cell growth. The genome of Rhizobium etli CFN42 is constituted by one chromosome and six large plasmids, ranging in size from 184 to 642 kb. Five of the six plasmids are dispensable for cell viability, but plasmid p42e is unusually stable. One possibility to explain this stability would be that genes on p42e carry out essential functions, thus making it a candidate for a secondary chromosome. To ascertain this, we made an in-depth functional analysis of p42e, employing bioinformatic tools, insertional mutagenesis, and programmed deletions. Nearly 11% of the genes in p42e participate in primary metabolism, involving biosynthetic functions (cobalamin, cardiolipin, cytochrome o, NAD, and thiamine), degradation (asparagine and melibiose), and septum formation (minCDE). Synteny analysis and incompatibility studies revealed highly stable replicons equivalent to p42e in content and gene order in other Rhizobium species. A systematic deletion analysis of p42e allowed the identification of two genes (RHE_PE00001 and RHE_PE00024), encoding, respectively, a hypothetical protein with a probable winged helix-turn-helix motif and a probable two-component sensor histidine kinase/response regulator hybrid protein, which are essential for growth in rich medium. These data support the proposal that p42e and its homologous replicons (pA, pRL11, pRLG202, and pR132502) merit the status of secondary chromosomes.	2011 Mar	Landeta, Cristina; Landeta, C; Landeta; Dávalos, Araceli; Dávalos, A; Dávalos; Cevallos, Miguel Ángel; Cevallos, MÁ; Cevallos; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero	J Bacteriol
21565630	Extended-spectrum β-lactamase-producing enterobacteriaceae causing nosocomial infections in Mexico. A retrospective and multicenter study.	Extended-spectrum β-lactamase (ESBLs) production is still the most frequent mechanism of resistance to cephalosporins in gram-negative bacteria. The aim of the study was to identify the types of ESBL-producing Enterobacteriaceae clinical isolates causing nosocomial infections in Mexico.	2011 Feb	Silva-Sanchez, Jesus; Silva-Sanchez, J; Silva-Sanchez; Garza-Ramos, Jesus Ulises; Garza-Ramos, JU; Garza-Ramos; Reyna-Flores, Fernando; Reyna-Flores, F; Reyna-Flores; Sánchez-Perez, Alejandro; Sánchez-Perez, A; Sánchez-Perez; Rojas-Moreno, Teresa; Rojas-Moreno, T; Rojas-Moreno; Andrade-Almaraz, Veronica; Andrade-Almaraz, V; Andrade-Almaraz; Pastrana, Josefina; Pastrana, J; Pastrana; Castro-Romero, Julieta Ivone; Castro-Romero, JI; Castro-Romero; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Barrios, Humberto; Barrios, H; Barrios; Cervantes, Carlos; Cervantes, C; Cervantes	Arch Med Res
21043576	Regulation and symbiotic role of nirK and norC expression in Rhizobium etli.	Rhizobium etli CFN42 is unable to use nitrate for respiration and lacks nitrate reductase activity as well as the nap or nar genes encoding respiratory nitrate reductase. However, genes encoding proteins closely related to denitrification enzymes, the norCBQD gene cluster and a novel nirKnirVnnrRnnrU operon are located on pCFN42f. In this study, we carried out a genetic and functional characterization of the reductases encoded by the R. etli nirK and norCB genes. By gene fusion expression analysis in free-living conditions, we determined that R. etli regulates its response to nitric oxide through NnrR via the microaerobic expression mediated by FixKf. Interestingly, expression of the norC and nirK genes displays a different level of dependence for NnrR. A null mutation in nnrR causes a drastic drop in the expression of norC, while nirK still exhibits significant expression. A thorough analysis of the nirK regulatory region revealed that this gene is under both positive and negative regulation. Functional analysis carried out in this work demonstrated that reduction of nitrite and nitric oxide in R. etli requires the reductase activities encoded by the norCBQD and nirK genes. Levels of nitrosylleghemoglobin complexes in bean plants exposed to nitrate are increased in a norC mutant but decreased in a nirK mutant. The nitrate-induced decline in nitrogenase-specific activity observed in both the wild type and the norC mutant was not detected in the nirK mutant. This data indicate that bacterial nitrite reductase is an important contributor to the formation of NO in bean nodules in response to nitrate.	2011 Feb	Gómez-Hernández, Nicolás; Gómez-Hernández, N; Gómez-Hernández; Reyes-González, Alma; Reyes-González, A; Reyes-González; Sánchez, Cristina; Sánchez, C; Sánchez; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Delgado, María J; Delgado, MJ; Delgado; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
20923783	Theoretical and empirical quality assessment of transcription factor-binding motifs.	Position-specific scoring matrices (PSSMs) are routinely used to predict transcription factor (TF)-binding sites in genome sequences. However, their reliability to predict novel binding sites can be far from optimum, due to the use of a small number of training sites or the inappropriate choice of parameters when building the matrix or when scanning sequences with it. Measures of matrix quality such as E-value and information content rely on theoretical models, and may fail in the context of full genome sequences. We propose a method, implemented in the program 'matrix-quality', that combines theoretical and empirical score distributions to assess reliability of PSSMs for predicting TF-binding sites. We applied 'matrix-quality' to estimate the predictive capacity of matrices for bacterial, yeast and mouse TFs. The evaluation of matrices from RegulonDB revealed some poorly predictive motifs, and allowed us to quantify the improvements obtained by applying multi-genome motif discovery. Interestingly, the method reveals differences between global and specific regulators. It also highlights the enrichment of binding sites in sequence sets obtained from high-throughput ChIP-chip (bacterial and yeast TFs), and ChIP-seq and experiments (mouse TFs). The method presented here has many applications, including: selecting reliable motifs before scanning sequences; improving motif collections in TFs databases; evaluating motifs discovered using high-throughput data sets.	2011 Feb	Medina-Rivera, Alejandra; Medina-Rivera, A; Medina-Rivera; Abreu-Goodger, Cei; Abreu-Goodger, C; Abreu-Goodger; Thomas-Chollier, Morgane; Thomas-Chollier, M; Thomas-Chollier; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; van Helden, Jacques; van Helden, J; van Helden	Nucleic Acids Res
21223599	Salmonella Typhimurium ST213 is associated with two types of IncA/C plasmids carrying multiple resistance determinants.	Salmonella Typhimurium ST213 was first detected in the Mexican Typhimurium population in 2001. It is associated with a multi-drug resistance phenotype and a plasmid-borne blaCMY-2 gene conferring resistance to extended-spectrum cephalosporins. The objective of the current study was to examine the association between the ST213 genotype and blaCMY-2 plasmids.	2011 Jan	Wiesner, Magdalena; Wiesner, M; Wiesner; Calva, Edmundo; Calva, E; Calva; Fernández-Mora, Marcos; Fernández-Mora, M; Fernández-Mora; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Campos, Freddy; Campos, F; Campos; Zaidi, Mussaret B; Zaidi, MB; Zaidi; Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva	BMC Microbiol
21075924	argC Orthologs from Rhizobiales show diverse profiles of transcriptional efficiency and functionality in Sinorhizobium meliloti.	Several factors can influence ortholog replacement between closely related species. We evaluated the transcriptional expression and metabolic performance of ortholog substitution complementing a Sinorhizobium meliloti argC mutant with argC from Rhizobiales (Agrobacterium tumefaciens, Rhizobium etli, and Mesorhizobium loti). The argC gene is necessary for the synthesis of arginine, an amino acid that is central to protein and cellular metabolism. Strains were obtained carrying plasmids with argC orthologs expressed under the speB and argC (S. meliloti) and lac (Escherichia coli) promoters. Complementation analysis was assessed by growth, transcriptional activity, enzymatic activity, mRNA levels, specific detection of ArgC proteomic protein, and translational efficiency. The argC orthologs performed differently in each complementation, reflecting the diverse factors influencing gene expression and the ability of the ortholog product to function in a foreign metabolic background. Optimal complementation was directly related to sequence similarity with S. meliloti, and was inversely related to species signature, with M. loti argC showing the poorest performance, followed by R. etli and A. tumefaciens. Different copy numbers of genes and amounts of mRNA and protein were produced, even with genes transcribed from the same promoter, indicating that coding sequences play a role in the transcription and translation processes. These results provide relevant information for further genomic analyses and suggest that orthologous gene substitutions between closely related species are not completely functionally equivalent.	2011 Jan	Díaz, Rafael; Díaz, R; Díaz; Vargas-Lagunas, Carmen; Vargas-Lagunas, C; Vargas-Lagunas; Villalobos, Miguel Angel; Villalobos, MA; Villalobos; Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
21097882	EcoCyc: a comprehensive database of Escherichia coli biology.	EcoCyc (http://EcoCyc.org) is a comprehensive model organism database for Escherichia coli K-12 MG1655. From the scientific literature, EcoCyc captures the functions of individual E. coli gene products; their regulation at the transcriptional, post-transcriptional and protein level; and their organization into operons, complexes and pathways. EcoCyc users can search and browse the information in multiple ways. Recent improvements to the EcoCyc Web interface include combined gene/protein pages and a Regulation Summary Diagram displaying a graphical overview of all known regulatory inputs to gene expression and protein activity. The graphical representation of signal transduction pathways has been updated, and the cellular and regulatory overviews were enhanced with new functionality. A specialized undergraduate teaching resource using EcoCyc is being developed.	2011 Jan	Keseler, Ingrid M; Keseler, IM; Keseler; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Peralta-Gil, Martin; Peralta-Gil, M; Peralta-Gil; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Muñiz-Rascado, Luis; Muñiz-Rascado, L; Muñiz-Rascado; Bonavides-Martinez, César; Bonavides-Martinez, C; Bonavides-Martinez; Paley, Suzanne; Paley, S; Paley; Krummenacker, Markus; Krummenacker, M; Krummenacker; Altman, Tomer; Altman, T; Altman; Kaipa, Pallavi; Kaipa, P; Kaipa; Spaulding, Aaron; Spaulding, A; Spaulding; Pacheco, John; Pacheco, J; Pacheco; Latendresse, Mario; Latendresse, M; Latendresse; Fulcher, Carol; Fulcher, C; Fulcher; Sarker, Malabika; Sarker, M; Sarker; Shearer, Alexander G; Shearer, AG; Shearer; Mackie, Amanda; Mackie, A; Mackie; Paulsen, Ian; Paulsen, I; Paulsen; Gunsalus, Robert P; Gunsalus, RP; Gunsalus; Karp, Peter D; Karp, PD; Karp	Nucleic Acids Res
21051347	RegulonDB version 7.0: transcriptional regulation of Escherichia coli K-12 integrated within genetic sensory response units (Gensor Units).	RegulonDB (http://regulondb.ccg.unam.mx/) is the primary reference database of the best-known regulatory network of any free-living organism, that of Escherichia coli K-12. The major conceptual change since 3 years ago is an expanded biological context so that transcriptional regulation is now part of a unit that initiates with the signal and continues with the signal transduction to the core of regulation, modifying expression of the affected target genes responsible for the response. We call these genetic sensory response units, or Gensor Units. We have initiated their high-level curation, with graphic maps and superreactions with links to other databases. Additional connectivity uses expandable submaps. RegulonDB has summaries for every transcription factor (TF) and TF-binding sites with internal symmetry. Several DNA-binding motifs and their sizes have been redefined and relocated. In addition to data from the literature, we have incorporated our own information on transcription start sites (TSSs) and transcriptional units (TUs), obtained by using high-throughput whole-genome sequencing technologies. A new portable drawing tool for genomic features is also now available, as well as new ways to download the data, including web services, files for several relational database manager systems and text files including BioPAX format.	2011 Jan	Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Peralta-Gil, Martin; Peralta-Gil, M; Peralta-Gil; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Muñiz-Rascado, Luis; Muñiz-Rascado, L; Muñiz-Rascado; Solano-Lira, Hilda; Solano-Lira, H; Solano-Lira; Jimenez-Jacinto, Verónica; Jimenez-Jacinto, V; Jimenez-Jacinto; Weiss, Verena; Weiss, V; Weiss; García-Sotelo, Jair S; García-Sotelo, JS; García-Sotelo; López-Fuentes, Alejandra; López-Fuentes, A; López-Fuentes; Porrón-Sotelo, Liliana; Porrón-Sotelo, L; Porrón-Sotelo; Alquicira-Hernández, Shirley; Alquicira-Hernández, S; Alquicira-Hernández; Medina-Rivera, Alejandra; Medina-Rivera, A; Medina-Rivera; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; Alquicira-Hernández, Kevin; Alquicira-Hernández, K; Alquicira-Hernández; Martínez-Adame, Ruth; Martínez-Adame, R; Martínez-Adame; Bonavides-Martínez, César; Bonavides-Martínez, C; Bonavides-Martínez; Miranda-Ríos, Juan; Miranda-Ríos, J; Miranda-Ríos; Huerta, Araceli M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Mendoza-Vargas, Alfredo; Mendoza-Vargas, A; Mendoza-Vargas; Collado-Torres, Leonardo; Collado-Torres, L; Collado-Torres; Taboada, Blanca; Taboada, B; Taboada; Vega-Alvarado, Leticia; Vega-Alvarado, L; Vega-Alvarado; Olvera, Maricela; Olvera, M; Olvera; Olvera, Leticia; Olvera, L; Olvera; Grande, Ricardo; Grande, R; Grande; Morett, Enrique; Morett, E; Morett; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
20942974	The extracellular proteome of Rhizobium etli CE3 in exponential and stationary growth phase.	The extracellular proteome or secretome of symbiotic bacteria like Rhizobium etli is presumed to be a key element of their infection strategy and survival. Rhizobia infect the roots of leguminous plants and establish a mutually beneficial symbiosis. To find out the possible role of secreted proteins we analyzed the extracellular proteome of R. etli CE3 in the exponential and stationary growth phases in minimal medium, supplemented with succinate-ammonium.	2010 Oct	Meneses, Niurka; Meneses, N; Meneses; Mendoza-Hernández, Guillermo; Mendoza-Hernández, G; Mendoza-Hernández; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación	Proteome Sci
24031569	Characterization of Bacillus isolates of potato rhizosphere from andean soils of Peru and their potential PGPR characteristics.	Bacillus spp. are well known rhizosphere residents of many crops and usually show plant growth promoting (PGP) activities that include biocontrol capacity against some phytopatogenic fungi. Potato crops in the Andean Highlands of Peru face many nutritional and phytophatogenic problems that have a significant impact on production. In this context is important to investigate the natural presence of these microorganisms in the potato rhizosphere and propose a selective screening to find promising PGP strains. In this study, sixty three Bacillus strains isolated from the rhizosphere of native potato varieties growing in the Andean highlands of Peru were screened for in vitro antagonism against Rhizoctonia solani and Fusarium solani. A high prevalence (68%) of antagonists against R. solani was found. Ninety one percent of those strains also inhibited the growth of F. solani. The antagonistic strains were also tested for other plant growth promotion activities. Eighty one percent produced some level of the auxin indole-3-acetic acid, and 58% solubilized tricalcium phosphate. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that the majority of the strains belonged to the B. amyloliquefaciens species, while strains Bac17M11, Bac20M1 and Bac20M2 may correspond to a putative new Bacillus species. The results suggested that the rhizosphere of native potatoes growing in their natural habitat in the Andes is a rich source of Bacillus fungal antagonists, which have a potential to be used in the future as PGP inoculants to improve potato crop. 	2010 Oct	Calvo, Pamela; Calvo, P; Calvo; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Zúñiga, Doris; Zúñiga, D; Zúñiga	Braz J Microbiol
20675442	Evolutionary dynamics of insertion sequences in relation to the evolutionary histories of the chromosome and symbiotic plasmid genes of Rhizobium etli populations.	Insertion sequences (IS) are mobile genetic elements that are distributed in many prokaryotes. In particular, in the genomes of the symbiotic nitrogen-fixing bacteria collectively known as rhizobia, IS are fairly abundant in plasmids or chromosomal islands that carry the genes needed for symbiosis. Here, we report an analysis of the distribution and genetic conservation of the IS found in the genome of Rhizobium etli CFN42 in a collection of 87 Rhizobium strains belonging to populations with different geographical origins. We used PCR to generate presence/absence profiles of the 39 IS found in R. etli CFN42 and evaluated whether the IS were located in consistent genomic contexts. We found that the IS from the symbiotic plasmid were frequently present in the analyzed strains, whereas the chromosomal IS were observed less frequently. We then examined the evolutionary dynamics of these strains based on a population genetic analysis of two chromosomal housekeeping genes (glyA and dnaB) and three symbiotic sequences (nodC and the two IS elements). Our results indicate that the IS contained within the symbiotic plasmid have a higher degree of genomic context conservation, lower nucleotide diversity and genetic differentiation, and fewer recombination events than the chromosomal housekeeping genes. These results suggest that the R. etli populations diverged recently in Mexico, that the symbiotic plasmid also had a recent origin, and that the IS elements have undergone a process of cyclic infection and expansion.	2010 Oct	Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Hernández-González, Ismael; Hernández-González, I; Hernández-González; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Santamaría, Rosa I; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Souza, Valeria; Souza, V; Souza; Young, J Peter W; Young, JP; Young; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; González, Víctor; González, V; González	Appl Environ Microbiol
20822874	Phaseolus vulgaris seed-borne endophytic community with novel bacterial species such as Rhizobium endophyticum sp. nov.	The bacterial endophytic community present in different Phaseolus vulgaris (bean) cultivars was analyzed by 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequences of cultured isolates derived from surface disinfected roots and immature seeds. Isolated endophytes from tissue-macerates belonged to over 50 species in 24 different genera and some isolates from Acinetobacter, Bacillus, Enterococcus, Nocardioides, Paracoccus, Phyllobacterium, and Sphingomonas seem to correspond to new lineages. Phytate solubilizing bacteria were identified among Acinetobacter, Bacillus and Streptomyces bean isolates, phytate is the most abundant reserve of phosphorus in bean and in other seeds. Endophytic rhizobia were not capable of forming nodules. A novel rhizobial species Rhizobium endophyticum was recognized on the basis of DNA-DNA hybridization, sequence of 16S rRNA, recA, rpoB, atpD, dnaK genes, plasmid profiles, and phenotypic characteristics. R. endophyticum is capable of solubilizing phytate, the type strain is CCGE2052 (ATCC BAA-2116; HAMBI 3153) that became fully symbiotic by acquiring the R. tropici CFN299 symbiotic plasmid.	2010 Oct	López-López, Aline; López-López, A; López-López; Rogel, Marco A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Martínez-Romero, Julio; Martínez-Romero, J; Martínez-Romero; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
20829833	The BioPAX community standard for pathway data sharing.	Biological Pathway Exchange (BioPAX) is a standard language to represent biological pathways at the molecular and cellular level and to facilitate the exchange of pathway data. The rapid growth of the volume of pathway data has spurred the development of databases and computational tools to aid interpretation; however, use of these data is hampered by the current fragmentation of pathway information across many databases with incompatible formats. BioPAX, which was created through a community process, solves this problem by making pathway data substantially easier to collect, index, interpret and share. BioPAX can represent metabolic and signaling pathways, molecular and genetic interactions and gene regulation networks. Using BioPAX, millions of interactions, organized into thousands of pathways, from many organisms are available from a growing number of databases. This large amount of pathway data in a computable form will support visualization, analysis and biological discovery.	2010 Sep	Demir, Emek; Demir, E; Demir; Cary, Michael P; Cary, MP; Cary; Paley, Suzanne; Paley, S; Paley; Fukuda, Ken; Fukuda, K; Fukuda; Lemer, Christian; Lemer, C; Lemer; Vastrik, Imre; Vastrik, I; Vastrik; Wu, Guanming; Wu, G; Wu; D'Eustachio, Peter; D'Eustachio, P; D'Eustachio; Schaefer, Carl; Schaefer, C; Schaefer; Luciano, Joanne; Luciano, J; Luciano; Schacherer, Frank; Schacherer, F; Schacherer; Martinez-Flores, Irma; Martinez-Flores, I; Martinez-Flores; Hu, Zhenjun; Hu, Z; Hu; Jimenez-Jacinto, Veronica; Jimenez-Jacinto, V; Jimenez-Jacinto; Joshi-Tope, Geeta; Joshi-Tope, G; Joshi-Tope; Kandasamy, Kumaran; Kandasamy, K; Kandasamy; Lopez-Fuentes, Alejandra C; Lopez-Fuentes, AC; Lopez-Fuentes; Mi, Huaiyu; Mi, H; Mi; Pichler, Elgar; Pichler, E; Pichler; Rodchenkov, Igor; Rodchenkov, I; Rodchenkov; Splendiani, Andrea; Splendiani, A; Splendiani; Tkachev, Sasha; Tkachev, S; Tkachev; Zucker, Jeremy; Zucker, J; Zucker; Gopinath, Gopal; Gopinath, G; Gopinath; Rajasimha, Harsha; Rajasimha, H; Rajasimha; Ramakrishnan, Ranjani; Ramakrishnan, R; Ramakrishnan; Shah, Imran; Shah, I; Shah; Syed, Mustafa; Syed, M; Syed; Anwar, Nadia; Anwar, N; Anwar; Babur, Ozgün; Babur, O; Babur; Blinov, Michael; Blinov, M; Blinov; Brauner, Erik; Brauner, E; Brauner; Corwin, Dan; Corwin, D; Corwin; Donaldson, Sylva; Donaldson, S; Donaldson; Gibbons, Frank; Gibbons, F; Gibbons; Goldberg, Robert; Goldberg, R; Goldberg; Hornbeck, Peter; Hornbeck, P; Hornbeck; Luna, Augustin; Luna, A; Luna; Murray-Rust, Peter; Murray-Rust, P; Murray-Rust; Neumann, Eric; Neumann, E; Neumann; Ruebenacker, Oliver; Ruebenacker, O; Ruebenacker; Reubenacker, Oliver; Reubenacker, O; Reubenacker; Samwald, Matthias; Samwald, M; Samwald; van Iersel, Martijn; van Iersel, M; van Iersel; Wimalaratne, Sarala; Wimalaratne, S; Wimalaratne; Allen, Keith; Allen, K; Allen; Braun, Burk; Braun, B; Braun; Whirl-Carrillo, Michelle; Whirl-Carrillo, M; Whirl-Carrillo; Cheung, Kei-Hoi; Cheung, KH; Cheung; Dahlquist, Kam; Dahlquist, K; Dahlquist; Finney, Andrew; Finney, A; Finney; Gillespie, Marc; Gillespie, M; Gillespie; Glass, Elizabeth; Glass, E; Glass; Gong, Li; Gong, L; Gong; Haw, Robin; Haw, R; Haw; Honig, Michael; Honig, M; Honig; Hubaut, Olivier; Hubaut, O; Hubaut; Kane, David; Kane, D; Kane; Krupa, Shiva; Krupa, S; Krupa; Kutmon, Martina; Kutmon, M; Kutmon; Leonard, Julie; Leonard, J; Leonard; Marks, Debbie; Marks, D; Marks; Merberg, David; Merberg, D; Merberg; Petri, Victoria; Petri, V; Petri; Pico, Alex; Pico, A; Pico; Ravenscroft, Dean; Ravenscroft, D; Ravenscroft; Ren, Liya; Ren, L; Ren; Shah, Nigam; Shah, N; Shah; Sunshine, Margot; Sunshine, M; Sunshine; Tang, Rebecca; Tang, R; Tang; Whaley, Ryan; Whaley, R; Whaley; Letovksy, Stan; Letovksy, S; Letovksy; Buetow, Kenneth H; Buetow, KH; Buetow; Rzhetsky, Andrey; Rzhetsky, A; Rzhetsky; Schachter, Vincent; Schachter, V; Schachter; Sobral, Bruno S; Sobral, BS; Sobral; Dogrusoz, Ugur; Dogrusoz, U; Dogrusoz; McWeeney, Shannon; McWeeney, S; McWeeney; Aladjem, Mirit; Aladjem, M; Aladjem; Birney, Ewan; Birney, E; Birney; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Goto, Susumu; Goto, S; Goto; Hucka, Michael; Hucka, M; Hucka; Le Novère, Nicolas; Le Novère, N; Le Novère; Maltsev, Natalia; Maltsev, N; Maltsev; Pandey, Akhilesh; Pandey, A; Pandey; Thomas, Paul; Thomas, P; Thomas; Wingender, Edgar; Wingender, E; Wingender; Karp, Peter D; Karp, PD; Karp; Sander, Chris; Sander, C; Sander; Bader, Gary D; Bader, GD; Bader	Nat Biotechnol
20811631	Modeling core metabolism in cancer cells: surveying the topology underlying the Warburg effect.	Alterations on glucose consumption and biosynthetic activity of amino acids, lipids and nucleotides are metabolic changes for sustaining cell proliferation in cancer cells. Irrevocable evidence of this fact is the Warburg effect which establishes that cancer cells prefers glycolysis over oxidative phosphorylation to generate ATP. Regulatory action over metabolic enzymes has opened a new window for designing more effective anti-cancer treatments. This enterprise is not trivial and the development of computational models that contribute to identifying potential enzymes for breaking the robustness of cancer cells is a priority.	2010 Aug	Resendis-Antonio, Osbaldo; Resendis-Antonio, O; Resendis-Antonio; Checa, Alberto; Checa, A; Checa; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación	PLoS One
20141548	Assessment of SCAR markers to design real-time PCR primers for rhizosphere quantification of Azospirillum brasilense phytostimulatory inoculants of maize.	To assess the applicability of sequence characterized amplified region (SCAR) markers obtained from BOX, ERIC and RAPD fragments to design primers for real-time PCR quantification of the phytostimulatory maize inoculants Azospirillum brasilense UAP-154 and CFN-535 in the rhizosphere.	2010 Aug	Couillerot, O; Couillerot, O; Couillerot; Poirier, M-A; Poirier, MA; Poirier; Prigent-Combaret, C; Prigent-Combaret, C; Prigent-Combaret; Mavingui, P; Mavingui, P; Mavingui; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Moënne-Loccoz, Y; Moënne-Loccoz, Y; Moënne-Loccoz	J Appl Microbiol
21082910	Genetic characterization of indigenous peoples from Oaxaca, Mexico, and its relation to linguistic and geographic isolation.	We used 15 short tandem repeat (STR) loci (D8S1179, D21S11, D7S820, CSF1PO, D3S1358, TH01, D13S317, D16S539, D2S1338, D19S433, VWA, TPOX, D18S51, D5S818, and FGA) to genetically characterize 361 individuals from 11 indigenous populations (Amuzgo, Chinanteco, Chontal, Huave, Mazateco, Mixe, Mixteco, Triqui, Zapoteco del Istmo, Zapoteco del Valle, and Zoque) from Oaxaca, Mexico. We also used previously published data from other Mexican peoples (Maya, Chol, Tepehua, Otomí, and Mestizos from northern and central Mexico) to delineate genetic relations, for a total of 541 individuals. Average heterozygosity (H) was lower in most populations from Oaxaca (range 0.687 in Zoque to 0.756 in Chontal) than values observed in Mestizo populations from Mexico (0.758 and 0.793 in central and northern Mestizo, respectively) but higher than values observed in other Amerindian populations from South America; the same relation was true for the number of alleles (n(a) ). We tested (using the software Structure) whether major geographic or linguistic barriers to gene flow existed among the populations of Oaxaca and found that the populations appeared to constitute one or two genetic groups, suggesting that neither geographic location nor linguistics had an effect on the genetic structure of these culturally and linguistically highly diverse indigenous peoples. Moreover, we found a low but statistically significant between-population differentiation. In addition, the genetic structure of Oaxacan populations did not fit an isolation-by-distance model. Finally, using AMOVA and a Bayesian clustering approach, we did not detect significant geographic or linguistic barriers to gene flow within Oaxaca. These results suggest that the indigenous communities of Oaxaca, although culturally isolated, can be genetically defined as a large, nearly panmictic population in which migration could be a more important population mechanism than genetic drift. Finally, compared with outgroups in Mexico (both indigenous peoples and Mestizos), three groups were apparent. Among them, only the Otomí population from Hidalgo has a different culture and language.	2010 Aug	Quinto-Cortés, Consuelo D; Quinto-Cortés, CD; Quinto-Cortés; Arriola, Luis A; Arriola, LA; Arriola; García-Hughes, Gianella; García-Hughes, G; García-Hughes; García-López, Rodrigo; García-López, R; García-López; Molina, Diana P; Molina, DP; Molina; Flores, Margarita; Flores, M; Flores; Palacios, Rafael; Palacios, R; Palacios; Piñero, Daniel; Piñero, D; Piñero	Hum Biol
20553393	MicroRNA expression profile in common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) under nutrient deficiency stresses and manganese toxicity.	*MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play a pivotal role in post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression in plants. Information on miRNAs in legumes is as yet scarce. This work investigates miRNAs in an agronomically important legume, common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris). *A hybridization approach employing miRNA macroarrays - printed with oligonucleotides complementary to 68 known miRNAs - was used to detect miRNAs in the leaves, roots and nodules of control and nutrient-stressed (phosphorus, nitrogen, or iron deficiency; acidic pH; and manganese toxicity) common bean plants. *Thirty-three miRNAs were expressed in control plants and another five were only expressed under stress conditions. The miRNA expression ratios (stress:control) were evaluated using principal component and hierarchical cluster analyses. A group of miRNAs responded to nearly all stresses in the three organs analyzed. Other miRNAs showed organ-specific responses. Most of the nodule-responsive miRNAs showed up-regulation. miRNA blot expression analysis confirmed the macroarray results. Novel miRNA target genes were proposed for common bean and the expression of selected targets was evaluated by quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. *In addition to the detection of previously reported stress-responsive miRNAs, we discovered novel common bean stress-responsive miRNAs, for manganese toxicity. Our data provide a foundation for evaluating the individual roles of miRNAs in common bean.	2010 Aug	Valdés-López, Oswaldo; Valdés-López, O; Valdés-López; Yang, S Samuel; Yang, SS; Yang; Aparicio-Fabre, Rosaura; Aparicio-Fabre, R; Aparicio-Fabre; Graham, Peter H; Graham, PH; Graham; Reyes, José Luis; Reyes, JL; Reyes; Vance, Carroll P; Vance, CP; Vance; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	New Phytol
22127169	Molecular phylogeny of the genus Dactylopius (Hemiptera: Dactylopiidae) and identification of the symbiotic bacteria.	Phylogenetic analyses, from polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-amplified 12S rRNA and 18S rRNA gene sequences from cochineal insects of the genus Dactylopius present in Mexico, showed that D. ceylonicus, D. confusus, and D. opuntiae are closely related. D.  coccus constitutes a separate clade, and D. tomentosus is the most distantly related. Bacterial 16S rRNA sequences from all the Dactylopius species sampled showed a common β-proteobacteria, related to Azoarcus, also found in eggs and in bacteriocytes in D. coccus.  We propose the name "Candidatus Dactylopiibacterium carminicum" for this endosymbiont. Other bacterial sequences recovered from the samples were close to those from soil or plant associated bacteria, like Massilia, Herbaspirillum, Acinetobacter, Mesorhizobium,  and Sphingomonas, suggesting a possible horizontal transmission from Cactaceae plant sap to Dactylopius spp. during feeding. This is the first molecular analysis of Dactylopius species and of their associated bacteria.	2010 Aug	Ramírez-Puebla, S T; Ramírez-Puebla, ST; Ramírez-Puebla; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Chávez-Moreno, C K; Chávez-Moreno, CK; Chávez-Moreno; de Lyra, M C Catanho Pereira; de Lyra, MC; de Lyra; Tecante, A; Tecante, A; Tecante; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Environ Entomol
20435728	Analysis of the mechanism of action of the antisense RNA that controls the replication of the repABC plasmid p42d.	Replication and segregation of the Rhizobium etli symbiotic plasmid (pRetCFN42d) depend on the presence of a repABC operon, which carries all the plasmid-encoded elements required for these functions. All repABC operons share three protein-encoding genes (repA, repB, and repC), an antisense RNA (ctRNA) coding gene, and at least one centromere-like region (parS). The products of repA and repB, in conjunction with the parS region, make up the segregation system, and they negatively regulate operon transcription. The last gene of the operon, repC, encodes the initiator protein. The ctRNA is a negative posttranscriptional regulator of repC. In this work, we analyzed the secondary structures of the ctRNA and its target and mapped the motifs involved in the complex formed between them. Essential residues for the effective interaction localize at the unpaired 5' end of the antisense molecule and the loop of the target mRNA. In light of our results, we propose a model explaining the mechanism of action of this ctRNA in the regulation of plasmid replication in R. etli.	2010 Jul	Cervantes-Rivera, Ramón; Cervantes-Rivera, R; Cervantes-Rivera; Romero-López, Cristina; Romero-López, C; Romero-López; Berzal-Herranz, Alfredo; Berzal-Herranz, A; Berzal-Herranz; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	J Bacteriol
20472732	Burkholderia phymatum strains capable of nodulating Phaseolus vulgaris are present in Moroccan soils.	Phylogenetic analysis of 16S rRNA, nodC, and nifH genes of four bacterial strains isolated from root nodules of Phaseolus vulgaris grown in Morocco soils were identified as Burkholderia phymatum. All four strains formed N(2)-fixing nodules on P. vulgaris and Mimosa, Acacia, and Prosopis species and reduced acetylene to ethylene when cultured ex planta.	2010 Jul	Talbi, C; Talbi, C; Talbi; Delgado, M J; Delgado, MJ; Delgado; Girard, L; Girard, L; Girard; Ramírez-Trujillo, A; Ramírez-Trujillo, A; Ramírez-Trujillo; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Bedmar, E J; Bedmar, EJ; Bedmar	Appl Environ Microbiol
20453139	Characterization of the NifA-RpoN regulon in Rhizobium etli in free life and in symbiosis with Phaseolus vulgaris.	The NifA-RpoN complex is a master regulator of the nitrogen fixation genes in alphaproteobacteria. Based on the complete Rhizobium etli genome sequence, we constructed an R. etli CFN42 oligonucleotide (70-mer) microarray and utilized this tool, reverse transcription (RT)-PCR analysis (transcriptomics), proteomics, and bioinformatics to decipher the NifA-RpoN regulon under microaerobic conditions (free life) and in symbiosis with bean plants. The R. etli NifA-RpoN regulon was determined to contain 78 genes, including the genes involved in nitrogen fixation, and the analyses revealed 42 new NifA-RpoN-dependent genes. More importantly, this study demonstrated that the NifA-RpoN regulon is composed of genes and proteins that have very diverse functions, that play fundamental and previously less appreciated roles in regulating the normal physiology of the cell, and that have important functions in providing adequate conditions for efficient nitrogen fixation in symbiosis. The R. etli NifA-RpoN regulon defined here has some components in common with other NifA-RpoN regulons described previously, but the vast majority of the components have been found only in the R. etli regulon, suggesting that they have a specific role in this bacterium and particular requirements during nitrogen fixation compared with other symbiotic bacterial models.	2010 Jul	Salazar, Emmanuel; Salazar, E; Salazar; Díaz-Mejía, J Javier; Díaz-Mejía, JJ; Díaz-Mejía; Moreno-Hagelsieb, Gabriel; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb; Martínez-Batallar, Gabriel; Martínez-Batallar, G; Martínez-Batallar; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación	Appl Environ Microbiol
20435760	Commonalities and differences in regulation of N-acyl homoserine lactone quorum sensing in the beneficial plant-associated burkholderia species cluster.	The genus Burkholderia includes over 60 species isolated from a wide range of environmental niches and can be tentatively divided into two major species clusters. The first cluster includes pathogens such as Burkholderia glumae, B. pseudomallei, and B. mallei and 17 well-studied species of the Burkholderia cepacia complex. The other recently established cluster comprises at least 29 nonpathogenic species, which in most cases have been found to be associated with plants. It was previously established that Burkholderia kururiensis, a member of the latter cluster, possesses an N-acyl homoserine lactone (AHL) quorum-sensing (QS) system designated "BraI/R," which is found in all species of the plant-associated cluster. In the present study, two other BraI/R-like systems were characterized in B. xenovorans and B. unamae and were designated the BraI/R(XEN) and BraI/R(UNA) systems, respectively. Several phenotypes were analyzed, and it was determined that exopolysaccharide was positively regulated by the BraIR-like system in the species B. kururiensis, B. unamae, and B. xenovorans, highlighting commonality in targets. However, the three BraIR-like systems also revealed differences in targets since biofilm formation and plant colonization were differentially regulated. In addition, a second AHL QS system designated XenI2/R2 and an unpaired LuxR solo protein designated BxeR solo were also identified and characterized in B. xenovorans LB400(T). The two AHL QS systems of B. xenovorans are not transcriptionally regulating each other, whereas BxeR solo negatively regulated xenI2. The XenI2/R2 and BxeR solo proteins are not widespread in the Burkholderia species cluster. In conclusion, the present study represents an extensive analysis of AHL QS in the Burkholderia plant-associated cluster demonstrating both commonalities and differences, probably reflecting environmental adaptations of the various species.	2010 Jul	Suárez-Moreno, Zulma Rocío; Suárez-Moreno, ZR; Suárez-Moreno; Devescovi, Giulia; Devescovi, G; Devescovi; Myers, Mike; Myers, M; Myers; Hallack, Letícia; Hallack, L; Hallack; Mendonça-Previato, Lucia; Mendonça-Previato, L; Mendonça-Previato; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Venturi, Vittorio; Venturi, V; Venturi	Appl Environ Microbiol
20459672	Transcript profiling of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) using the GeneChip Soybean Genome Array: optimizing analysis by masking biased probes.	Common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) and soybean (Glycine max) both belong to the Phaseoleae tribe and share significant coding sequence homology. This suggests that the GeneChip(R) Soybean Genome Array (soybean GeneChip) may be used for gene expression studies using common bean.	2010 May	Yang, S Samuel; Yang, SS; Yang; Valdés-López, Oswaldo; Valdés-López, O; Valdés-López; Xu, Wayne W; Xu, WW; Xu; Bucciarelli, Bruna; Bucciarelli, B; Bucciarelli; Gronwald, John W; Gronwald, JW; Gronwald; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Vance, Carroll P; Vance, CP; Vance	BMC Plant Biol
20153447	Altered lipid A structures and polymyxin hypersensitivity of Rhizobium etli mutants lacking the LpxE and LpxF phosphatases.	The lipid A of Rhizobium etli, a nitrogen-fixing plant endosymbiont, displays significant structural differences when compared to that of Escherichia coli. An especially striking feature of R. etli lipid A is that it lacks both the 1- and 4'-phosphate groups. The 4'-phosphate moiety of the distal glucosamine unit is replaced with a galacturonic acid residue. The dephosphorylated proximal unit is present as a mixture of the glucosamine hemiacetal and an oxidized 2-aminogluconate derivative. Distinct lipid A phosphatases directed to the 1 or the 4'-positions have been identified previously in extracts of R. etli and Rhizobium leguminosarum. The corresponding structural genes, lpxE and lpxF, respectively, have also been identified. Here, we describe the isolation and characterization of R. etli deletion mutants in each of these phosphatase genes and the construction of a double phosphatase mutant. Mass spectrometry confirmed that the mutant strains completely lacked the wild-type lipid A species and accumulated the expected phosphate-containing derivatives. Moreover, radiochemical analysis revealed that phosphatase activity was absent in membranes prepared from the mutants. Our results indicate that LpxE and LpxF are solely responsible for selectively dephosphorylating the lipid A molecules of R. etli. All the mutant strains showed an increased sensitivity to polymyxin relative to the wild-type. However, despite the presence of altered lipid A species containing one or both phosphate groups, all the phosphatase mutants formed nitrogen-fixing nodules on Phaseolus vulgaris. Therefore, the dephosphorylation of lipid A molecules in R. etli is not required for nodulation but may instead play a role in protecting the bacteria from cationic antimicrobial peptides or other immune responses of plants.	2010 May	Ingram, Brian O; Ingram, BO; Ingram; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Raetz, Christian R H; Raetz, CR; Raetz	Biochim Biophys Acta
20367476	Production of nitric oxide and nitrosylleghemoglobin complexes in soybean nodules in response to flooding.	Nitric oxide (NO) has gained interest as a major signaling molecule during plant development and in response to environmental cues. Formation of NO during symbiotic interactions has been reported, but the role and sources of NO in nodules remain unclear. In this work, the involvement of denitrification, performed by the symbiont Bradyrhizobium japonicum, in NO formation in soybean nodules in response to flooding conditions has been investigated by inoculating plants with napA-, nirK-, or norC-deficient mutants. Levels of nitrosylleghemoglobin (LbNO) in flooded nirK and norC nodules were significantly higher than those observed in wild-type nodules. In addition, nirK and norC nodules accumulated more nitrite and NO, respectively, than wild-type nodules. By contrast, levels of LbNO, nitrite, and NO in flooded napA nodules were lower than in wild-type nodules. These results suggest that LbNO formation in soybean nodules in response to flooding conditions is caused by nitrite and NO generated from periplasmic nitrate reductase (Nap) and also containing nitrite reductase (NirK) denitrification enzymes. Flooding caused a decrease of nifH expression and nitrogenase activity in wild-type and norC nodules but not in napA or nirK nodules. Incubation of wild-type and norC nodules with a NO scavenger counteracted the effect of flooding. Under free-living conditions, beta-galactosidase activity from a nifD'-'lacZ fusion decreased in a norC mutant, which also accumulated NO in the medium. These results suggest that NO formed by Cu-containing nitrite reductase in soybean nodules in response to flooding has a negative effect on expression of nitrogenase. We propose that Lb has a major role in detoxifying NO and nitrite produced by bacteroidal denitrification in response to flooding conditions.	2010 May	Sánchez, Cristina; Sánchez, C; Sánchez; Gates, Andrew J; Gates, AJ; Gates; Meakin, Georgina E; Meakin, GE; Meakin; Uchiumi, Toshiki; Uchiumi, T; Uchiumi; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Richardson, David J; Richardson, DJ; Richardson; Bedmar, Eulogio J; Bedmar, EJ; Bedmar; Delgado, María J; Delgado, MJ; Delgado	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
20096123	Identical repeated backbone of the human genome.	Identical sequences with a minimal length of about 300 base pairs (bp) have been involved in the generation of various meiotic/mitotic genomic rearrangements through non-allelic homologous recombination (NAHR) events. Genomic disorders and structural variation, together with gene remodelling processes have been associated with many of these rearrangements. Based on these observations, we identified and integrated all the 100% identical repeats of at least 300 bp in the NCBI version 36.2 human genome reference assembly into non-overlapping regions, thus defining the Identical Repeated Backbone (IRB) of the reference human genome.	2010 Jan	Zepeda-Mendoza, Cinthya J; Zepeda-Mendoza, CJ; Zepeda-Mendoza; Lemus, Tzitziki; Lemus, T; Lemus; Yáñez, Omar; Yáñez, O; Yáñez; García, Delfino; García, D; García; Valle-García, David; Valle-García, D; Valle-García; Meza-Sosa, Karla F; Meza-Sosa, KF; Meza-Sosa; Gutiérrez-Arcelus, María; Gutiérrez-Arcelus, M; Gutiérrez-Arcelus; Márquez-Ortiz, Yamile; Márquez-Ortiz, Y; Márquez-Ortiz; Domínguez-Vidaña, Rocío; Domínguez-Vidaña, R; Domínguez-Vidaña; Gonzaga-Jauregui, Claudia; Gonzaga-Jauregui, C; Gonzaga-Jauregui; Flores, Margarita; Flores, M; Flores; Palacios, Rafael; Palacios, R; Palacios	BMC Genomics
20048063	Conserved symbiotic plasmid DNA sequences in the multireplicon pangenomic structure of Rhizobium etli.	Strains of the same bacterial species often show considerable genomic variation. To examine the extent of such variation in Rhizobium etli, the complete genome sequence of R. etli CIAT652 and the partial genomic sequences of six additional R. etli strains having different geographical origins were determined. The sequences were compared with each other and with the previously reported genome sequence of R. etli CFN42. DNA sequences common to all strains constituted the greater part of these genomes and were localized in both the chromosome and large plasmids. About 700 to 1,000 kb of DNA that did not match sequences of the complete genomes of strains CIAT652 and CFN42 was unique to each R. etli strain. These sequences were distributed throughout the chromosome as individual genes or chromosomal islands and in plasmids, and they encoded accessory functions, such as transport of sugars and amino acids, or secondary metabolism; they also included mobile elements and hypothetical genes. Sequences corresponding to symbiotic plasmids showed high levels of nucleotide identity (about 98 to 99%), whereas chromosomal sequences and the sequences with matches to other plasmids showed lower levels of identity (on average, about 90 to 95%). We concluded that R. etli has a pangenomic structure with a core genome composed of both chromosomal and plasmid sequences, including a highly conserved symbiotic plasmid, despite the overall genomic divergence.	2010 Mar	González, Víctor; González, V; González; Acosta, José L; Acosta, JL; Acosta; Santamaría, Rosa I; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Fernández, José L; Fernández, JL; Fernández; Hernández González, Ismael L; Hernández González, IL; Hernández González; Díaz, Rafael; Díaz, R; Díaz; Flores, Margarita; Flores, M; Flores; Palacios, Rafael; Palacios, R; Palacios; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila	Appl Environ Microbiol
19809970	Transformed cell suspension culture of Galphimia glauca producing sedative nor-friedelanes.	The Mexican species GALPHIMIA GLAUCA (Cav.) Kuntze (Malphigiaceae) synthesises a family of sedative and anxiolytic nor-secofriedelanes, designated as galphimines. These active principles accumulate at low concentration in the aerial parts of plants from wild populations. Transformed calluses and cell suspension cultures of this species were established in order to induce a greater production of nor-friedelanes. The cell suspension line GgBa was selected and grown over a period of two years of continuous subculturing in MS nutrient medium in the absence of growth regulators. PCR and Southern blot analyses were employed in order to confirm that the ROL A gene had been integrated into the plant genome. Batch cultures of the GgBa cell line were grown over a 32-day period and first-order growth kinetics was observed, reaching a specific growth rate (micro) of 0.13 d (-1). The production of glaucacetalin A ( 10), a triterpenoid related to the known galphimines, was quantified in the nutrient medium by HPLC. The transformed cell suspension culture GgBa also synthesised a novel nor-friedelane, given the name glaucacetalin D ( 13). High-resolution spectroscopic and spectrometric techniques were employed to elucidate the structure of 13. This triterpene has never been observed in wild plant tissues or in other IN VITRO cultures. Maslinic acid ( 14) was identified in cell biomasses. The triterpene production of the cell line GgBa was as follows: glaucacetalin A, 2.7 mg/L; glaucacetalin D, 2.9 mg/L and maslinic acid, 2.4 mg/g dry weight. The sedative activity of compounds 10 and 13 was demonstrated in ICR mice by using the sodium pentobarbital-induced hypnosis model. No cytotoxicity of 10 and 13 was exhibited against KB, MCF-7 and HF6 human cancer cell lines.	2010 Mar	Ortíz, Anabel; Ortíz, A; Ortíz; Cardoso-Taketa, Alexandre; Cardoso-Taketa, A; Cardoso-Taketa; Monroy, Mario Rodríguez; Monroy, MR; Monroy; Arellano, Jesús; Arellano, J; Arellano; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Villarreal, María Luisa; Villarreal, ML; Villarreal	Planta Med
19797355	SMc01553 is the sixth acyl carrier protein in Sinorhizobium meliloti 1021.	Acyl carrier proteins (ACPs) are required for the transfer of acyl intermediates during fatty acid and polyketide syntheses. In Sinorhizobium meliloti 1021 there are five known ACPs: AcpP, NodF, AcpXL, the ACP domain in RkpA and SMb20651. The genome sequence of S. meliloti 1021 also reveals the ORF SMc01553, annotated as a putative ACP. smc01553 is part of a 6.6 kb DNA region that is duplicated in the chromosome and in the pSymb plasmid, the result of a recent duplication event. SMc01553 overexpressed in Escherichia coli was labelled in vivo with [(3)H]beta-alanine, a biosynthetic building block of the 4'-phosphopantetheine prosthetic group of ACPs. The purified SMc01553 was modified with 4'-phosphopantetheine in the presence of S. meliloti holo-ACP synthase, and this modification resulted in a major conformational change of the protein structure, since the holo-form runs faster in native PAGE than the apo-form. SMc01553 could not be loaded with a malonyl group by malonyl-CoA-ACP transacylase from S. meliloti. Using RT-PCR we could show the presence of mRNA for SMc01553 and of the duplicated ORF SMb22007 in cultures of S. meliloti. However, a mutant in which the two duplicated regions were deleted did not show any different phenotype with respect to the wild-type in the free-living or symbiotic lifestyle.	2010 Jan	Dávila-Martínez, Yadira; Dávila-Martínez, Y; Dávila-Martínez; Ramos-Vega, Ana Laura; Ramos-Vega, AL; Ramos-Vega; Contreras-Martínez, Sandra; Contreras-Martínez, S; Contreras-Martínez; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara	Microbiology (Reading)
20018679	Sinorhizobium meliloti phospholipase C required for lipid remodeling during phosphorus limitation.	Rhizobia are Gram-negative soil bacteria able to establish nitrogen-fixing root nodules with their respective legume host plants. Besides phosphatidylglycerol, cardiolipin, and phosphatidylethanolamine, rhizobial membranes contain phosphatidylcholine (PC) as a major membrane lipid. Under phosphate-limiting conditions of growth, some bacteria replace their membrane phospholipids with lipids lacking phosphorus. In Sinorhizobium meliloti, these phosphorus-free lipids are sulfoquinovosyl diacylglycerol, ornithine-containing lipid, and diacylglyceryl trimethylhomoserine (DGTS). Pulse-chase experiments suggest that the zwitterionic phospholipids phosphatidylethanolamine and PC act as biosynthetic precursors of DGTS under phosphorus-limiting conditions. A S. meliloti mutant, deficient in the predicted phosphatase SMc00171 was unable to degrade PC or to form DGTS in a similar way as the wild type. Cell-free extracts of Escherichia coli, in which SMc00171 had been expressed, convert PC to phosphocholine and diacylglycerol, showing that SMc00171 functions as a phospholipase C. Diacylglycerol , in turn, is the lipid anchor from which biosynthesis is initiated during the formation of the phosphorus-free membrane lipid DGTS. Inorganic phosphate can be liberated from phosphocholine. These data suggest that, in S. meliloti under phosphate-limiting conditions, membrane phospholipids provide a pool for metabolizable inorganic phosphate, which can be used for the synthesis of other essential phosphorus-containing biomolecules. This is an example of an intracellular phospholipase C in a bacterial system; however, the ability to degrade endogenous preexisting membrane phospholipids as a source of phosphorus may be a general property of Gram-negative soil bacteria.	2010 Jan	Zavaleta-Pastor, Maritza; Zavaleta-Pastor, M; Zavaleta-Pastor; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Gao, Jun-Lian; Gao, JL; Gao; Guan, Ziqiang; Guan, Z; Guan; Zaheer, Rahat; Zaheer, R; Zaheer; Finan, Turlough M; Finan, TM; Finan; Raetz, Christian R H; Raetz, CR; Raetz; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
20030724	Phosphatidylcholine levels of peanut-nodulating Bradyrhizobium sp. SEMIA 6144 affect cell size and motility.	Phosphatidylcholine, the major phospholipid in eukaryotes, is found in rhizobia and in many other bacteria interacting with eukaryotic hosts. Phosphatidylcholine has been shown to be required for a successful interaction of Bradyrhizobium japonicum USDA 110 with soybean roots. Our aim was to study the role of bacterial phosphatidylcholine in the Bradyrhizobium-peanut (Arachis hypogaea) symbiosis. Phospholipid N-methyltransferase (Pmt) and minor phosphatidylcholine synthase (Pcs) activities were detected in crude extracts of the peanut-nodulating strain Bradyrhizobium sp. SEMIA 6144. Our results suggest that phosphatidylcholine formation in Bradyrhizobium sp. SEMIA 6144 is mainly due to the phospholipid methylation pathway. Southern blot analysis using pmt- and pcs-probes of B. japonicum USDA 110 revealed a pcs and multiple pmt homologues in Bradyrhizobium sp. SEMIA 6144. A pmtA knockout mutant was constructed in Bradyrhizobium sp. SEMIA 6144 that showed a 50% decrease in the phosphatidylcholine content in comparison with the wild-type strain. The mutant was severely affected in motility and cell size, but formed wild-type-like nodules on its host plant. However, in coinoculation experiments, the pmtA-deficient mutant was less competitive than the wild type, suggesting that wild-type levels of phosphatidylcholine are required for full competitivity of Bradyrhizobium in symbiosis with peanut plants.	2010 Feb	Medeot, Daniela B; Medeot, DB; Medeot; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Dardanelli, Marta S; Dardanelli, MS; Dardanelli; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; de Lema, Mirta García; de Lema, MG; de Lema; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara	FEMS Microbiol Lett
19767616	3D-footprint: a database for the structural analysis of protein-DNA complexes.	3D-footprint is a living database, updated and curated on a weekly basis, which provides estimates of binding specificity for all protein-DNA complexes available at the Protein Data Bank. The web interface allows the user to: (i) browse DNA-binding proteins by keyword; (ii) find proteins that recognize a similar DNA motif and (iii) BLAST similar DNA-binding proteins, highlighting interface residues in the resulting alignments. Each complex in the database is dissected to draw interface graphs and footprint logos, and two complementary algorithms are employed to characterize binding specificity. Moreover, oligonucleotide sequences extracted from literature abstracts are reported in order to show the range of variant sites bound by each protein and other related proteins. Benchmark experiments, including comparisons with expert-curated databases RegulonDB and TRANSFAC, support the quality of structure-based estimates of specificity. The relevant content of the database is available for download as flat files and it is also possible to use the 3D-footprint pipeline to analyze protein coordinates input by the user. 3D-footprint is available at http://floresta.eead.csic.es/3dfootprint with demo buttons and a comprehensive tutorial that illustrates the main uses of this resource.	2010 Jan	Contreras-Moreira, Bruno; Contreras-Moreira, B; Contreras-Moreira	Nucleic Acids Res
19703488	Amino acid-containing membrane lipids in bacteria.	In the bacterial model organism Escherichia coli only the three major membrane lipids phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylglycerol, and cardiolipin occur, all of which belong to the glycerophospholipids. The amino acid-containing phosphatidylserine is a major lipid in eukaryotic membranes but in most bacteria it occurs only as a minor biosynthetic intermediate. In some bacteria, the anionic glycerophospholipids phosphatidylglycerol and cardiolipin can be decorated with aminoacyl residues. For example, phosphatidylglycerol can be decorated with lysine, alanine, or arginine whereas in the case of cardiolipin, lysine or d-alanine modifications are known. In few bacteria, diacylglycerol-derived lipids can be substituted with lysine or homoserine. Acyl-oxyacyl lipids in which the lipidic part is amide-linked to the alpha-amino group of an amino acid are widely distributed among bacteria and ornithine-containing lipids are the most common version of this lipid type. Only few bacterial groups form glycine-containing lipids, serineglycine-containing lipids, sphingolipids, or sulfonolipids. Although many of these amino acid-containing bacterial membrane lipids are produced in response to certain stress conditions, little is known about the specific molecular functions of these lipids.	2010 Jan	Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; González-Silva, Napoleón; González-Silva, N; González-Silva; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	Prog Lipid Res
19945811	Rapid identification of nitrogen-fixing and legume-nodulating Burkholderia species based on PCR 16S rRNA species-specific oligonucleotides.	Several novel N(2)-fixing Burkholderia species associated with plants, including legume-nodulating species, have recently been discovered. Presently, considerable interest exists in studying the diazotrophic Burkholderia species, both for their ecology and their great potential for agro-biotechnological applications. However, the available methods used in the identification of these Burkholderia species are time-consuming and expensive. In this study, PCR species-specific primers based on the 16S rRNA gene were designed, which allowed rapid, easy, and correct identification of most known N(2)-fixing Burkholderia. With this approach, type and reference strains of Burkholderia kururiensis, B. unamae, B. xenovorans, B. tropica, and B. silvatlantica, as well as the legume-nodulating B. phymatum, B. tuberum, B. mimosarum, and B. nodosa, were unambiguously identified. In addition, the PCR species-specific primers allowed the diversity of the diazotrophic Burkholderia associated with field-grown tomato and sorghum plants to be determined. B. tropica and B. xenovorans were the predominant species found in association with tomato, but the occurrence of B. tropica with sorghum plants was practically exclusive. The efficiency of the species-specific primers was validated with the detection of B. tropica and B. xenovorans from DNA directly recovered from tomato rhizosphere soil samples. Additionally, using PCR species-specific primers, all of the legume-nodulating Burkholderia were correctly identified, even from single nodules collected from inoculated common bean plants. These primers could contribute to rapid identification of the diazotrophic and nodulating Burkholderia species associated with important crop plants and legumes, as well as revealing their environmental distribution.	2010 Jan	Wong-Villarreal, Arnoldo; Wong-Villarreal, A; Wong-Villarreal; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	Syst Appl Microbiol
19995411	Structural and functional map of a bacterial nucleoid.	Genome-wide mapping of transcription factor-DNA interactions in bacterial chromosomes in vivo has begun to reveal global zones occupied by these factors that serve two purposes: compacting the bacterial DNA and influencing global programs of gene transcription.	2009	Martínez-Antonio, Agustino; Martínez-Antonio, A; Martínez-Antonio; Medina-Rivera, Alejandra; Medina-Rivera, A; Medina-Rivera; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Genome Biol
20464217	[Genetics and genomics for the study of bacterial resistance].	Bacterial resistance is a public health problem causing high rates of morbidity and mortality in hospital settings. To the extent that different antibiotics are used, bacteria resistant to multiple drugs are selected. The development of new molecular genomic and proteomic tools such as real-time PCR, DNA pyrosequencing, mass spectrometry, DNA microarrays, and bioinformatics allow for more in-depth knowledge about the physiology and structure of bacteria and mechanisms involved in antibiotic resistance. These studies identify new targets for drugs and design specific antibiotics to provide more accurate treatments to combat infections caused by bacteria. Using these techniques, it will also be possible to rapidly identify genes that confer resistance to antibiotics, and to identify complex genetic structures, such as integrons that are involved in the spread of genes that confer multidrug-resistance.	2009	Garza-Ramos, Ulises; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos; Silva-Sánchez, Jesús; Silva-Sánchez, J; Silva-Sánchez; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Salud Publica Mex
19919719	Horizontal gene transfer and diverse functional constrains within a common replication-partitioning system in Alphaproteobacteria: the repABC operon.	The repABC plasmid family, which is extensively present within Alphaproteobacteria, and some secondary chromosomes of the Rhizobiales have the particular feature that all the elements involved in replication and partitioning reside within one transcriptional unit, the repABC operon. Given the functional interactions among the elements of the repABC operon, and the fact that they all reside in the same operon, a common evolutionary history would be expected if the entire operon had been horizontally transferred. Here, we tested whether there is a common evolutionary history within the repABC operon. We further examined different incompatibility groups in terms of their differentiation and degree of adaptation to their host.	2009 Nov	Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Vázquez-Castellanos, Jorge F; Vázquez-Castellanos, JF; Vázquez-Castellanos; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	BMC Genomics
19684068	Major roles of isocitrate lyase and malate synthase in bacterial and fungal pathogenesis.	The glyoxylate cycle is an anaplerotic pathway of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle that allows growth on C(2) compounds by bypassing the CO(2)-generating steps of the TCA cycle. The unique enzymes of this route are isocitrate lyase (ICL) and malate synthase (MS). ICL cleaves isocitrate to glyoxylate and succinate, and MS converts glyoxylate and acetyl-CoA to malate. The end products of the bypass can be used for gluconeogenesis and other biosynthetic processes. The glyoxylate cycle occurs in Eukarya, Bacteria and Archaea. Recent studies of ICL- and MS-deficient strains as well as proteomic and transcriptional analyses show that these enzymes are often important in human, animal and plant pathogenesis. These studies have extended our understanding of the metabolic pathways essential for the survival of pathogens inside the host and provide a more complete picture of the physiology of pathogenic micro-organisms. Hopefully, the recent knowledge generated about the role of the glyoxylate cycle in virulence can be used for the development of new vaccines, or specific inhibitors to combat bacterial and fungal diseases.	2009 Oct	Dunn, M F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Ramírez-Trujillo, J A; Ramírez-Trujillo, JA; Ramírez-Trujillo; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas	Microbiology (Reading)
19755543	Global changes in the transcript and metabolic profiles during symbiotic nitrogen fixation in phosphorus-stressed common bean plants.	Phosphorus (P) deficiency is widespread in regions where the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris), the most important legume for human consumption, is produced, and it is perhaps the factor that most limits nitrogen fixation. Global gene expression and metabolome approaches were used to investigate the responses of nodules from common bean plants inoculated with Rhizobium tropici CIAT899 grown under P-deficient and P-sufficient conditions. P-deficient inoculated plants showed drastic reduction in nodulation and nitrogenase activity as determined by acetylene reduction assay. Nodule transcript profiling was performed through hybridization of nylon filter arrays spotted with cDNAs, approximately 4,000 unigene set, from the nodule and P-deficient root library. A total of 459 genes, representing different biological processes according to updated annotation using the UniProt Knowledgebase database, showed significant differential expression in response to P: 59% of these were induced in P-deficient nodules. The expression platform for transcription factor genes based in quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction revealed that 37 transcription factor genes were differentially expressed in P-deficient nodules and only one gene was repressed. Data from nontargeted metabolic profiles indicated that amino acids and other nitrogen metabolites were decreased, while organic and polyhydroxy acids were accumulated, in P-deficient nodules. Bioinformatics analyses using MapMan and PathExpress software tools, customized to common bean, were utilized for the analysis of global changes in gene expression that affected overall metabolism. Glycolysis and glycerolipid metabolism, and starch and Suc metabolism, were identified among the pathways significantly induced or repressed in P-deficient nodules, respectively.	2009 Nov	Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Valdés-López, Oswaldo; Valdés-López, O; Valdés-López; Ramírez, Mario; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Goffard, Nicolas; Goffard, N; Goffard; Weiller, Georg; Weiller, G; Weiller; Aparicio-Fabre, Rosaura; Aparicio-Fabre, R; Aparicio-Fabre; Fuentes, Sara Isabel; Fuentes, SI; Fuentes; Erban, Alexander; Erban, A; Erban; Kopka, Joachim; Kopka, J; Kopka; Udvardi, Michael K; Udvardi, MK; Udvardi; Vance, Carroll P; Vance, CP; Vance	Plant Physiol
19838305	Genome-wide identification of transcription start sites, promoters and transcription factor binding sites in E. coli.	Despite almost 40 years of molecular genetics research in Escherichia coli a major fraction of its Transcription Start Sites (TSSs) are still unknown, limiting therefore our understanding of the regulatory circuits that control gene expression in this model organism. RegulonDB (http://regulondb.ccg.unam.mx/) is aimed at integrating the genetic regulatory network of E. coli K12 as an entirely bioinformatic project up till now. In this work, we extended its aims by generating experimental data at a genome scale on TSSs, promoters and regulatory regions. We implemented a modified 5' RACE protocol and an unbiased High Throughput Pyrosequencing Strategy (HTPS) that allowed us to map more than 1700 TSSs with high precision. From this collection, about 230 corresponded to previously reported TSSs, which helped us to benchmark both our methodologies and the accuracy of the previous mapping experiments. The other ca 1500 TSSs mapped belong to about 1000 different genes, many of them with no assigned function. We identified promoter sequences and type of sigma factors that control the expression of about 80% of these genes. As expected, the housekeeping sigma(70) was the most common type of promoter, followed by sigma(38). The majority of the putative TSSs were located between 20 to 40 nucleotides from the translational start site. Putative regulatory binding sites for transcription factors were detected upstream of many TSSs. For a few transcripts, riboswitches and small RNAs were found. Several genes also had additional TSSs within the coding region. Unexpectedly, the HTPS experiments revealed extensive antisense transcription, probably for regulatory functions. The new information in RegulonDB, now with more than 2400 experimentally determined TSSs, strengthens the accuracy of promoter prediction, operon structure, and regulatory networks and provides valuable new information that will facilitate the understanding from a global perspective the complex and intricate regulatory network that operates in E. coli.	2009 Oct	Mendoza-Vargas, Alfredo; Mendoza-Vargas, A; Mendoza-Vargas; Olvera, Leticia; Olvera, L; Olvera; Olvera, Maricela; Olvera, M; Olvera; Grande, Ricardo; Grande, R; Grande; Vega-Alvarado, Leticia; Vega-Alvarado, L; Vega-Alvarado; Taboada, Blanca; Taboada, B; Taboada; Jimenez-Jacinto, Verónica; Jimenez-Jacinto, V; Jimenez-Jacinto; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Juárez, Katy; Juárez, K; Juárez; Contreras-Moreira, Bruno; Contreras-Moreira, B; Contreras-Moreira; Huerta, Araceli M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Morett, Enrique; Morett, E; Morett	PLoS One
19700546	ACC (1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate) deaminase activity, a widespread trait in Burkholderia species, and its growth-promoting effect on tomato plants.	The genus Burkholderia includes pathogens of plants and animals and some human opportunistic pathogens, such as the Burkholderia cepacia complex (Bcc), but most species are nonpathogenic, plant associated, and rhizospheric or endophytic. Since rhizobacteria expressing ACC (1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate) deaminase may enhance plant growth by lowering plant ethylene levels, in this work we investigated the presence of ACC deaminase activity and the acdS gene in 45 strains, most of which are plant associated, representing 20 well-known Burkholderia species. The results demonstrated that ACC deaminase activity is a widespread feature in the genus Burkholderia, since 18 species exhibited ACC deaminase activities in the range from 2 to 15 mumol of alpha-ketobutyrate/h/mg protein, which suggests that these species may be able to modulate ethylene levels and enhance plant growth. In these 18 Burkholderia species the acdS gene sequences were highly conserved (76 to 99% identity). Phylogenetic analysis of acdS gene sequences in Burkholderia showed tight clustering of the Bcc species, which were clearly distinct from diazotrophic plant-associated Burkholderia species. In addition, an acdS knockout mutant of the N(2)-fixing bacterium Burkholderia unamae MTl-641(T) and a transcriptional acdSp-gusA fusion constructed in this strain showed that ACC deaminase could play an important role in promotion of the growth of tomato plants. The widespread ACC deaminase activity in Burkholderia species and the common association of these species with plants suggest that this genus could be a major contributor to plant growth under natural conditions.	2009 Oct	Onofre-Lemus, Janette; Onofre-Lemus, J; Onofre-Lemus; Hernández-Lucas, Ismael; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	Appl Environ Microbiol
19555380	Nodulation of Sesbania species by Rhizobium (Agrobacterium) strain IRBG74 and other rhizobia.	Concatenated sequence analysis with 16S rRNA, rpoB and fusA genes identified a bacterial strain (IRBG74) isolated from root nodules of the aquatic legume Sesbania cannabina as a close relative of the plant pathogen Rhizobium radiobacter (syn. Agrobacterium tumefaciens). However, DNA:DNA hybridization with R. radiobacter, R. rubi, R. vitis and R. huautlense gave only 44%, 5%, 8% and 8% similarity respectively, suggesting that IRBG74 is potentially a new species. Additionally, it contained no vir genes and lacked tumour-forming ability, but harboured a sym-plasmid containing nifH and nodA genes similar to those in other Sesbania symbionts. Indeed, IRBG74 effectively nodulated S. cannabina and seven other Sesbania spp. that nodulate with Ensifer (Sinorhizobium)/Rhizobium strains with similar nodA genes to IRBG74, but not species that nodulate with Azorhizobium or Mesorhizobium. Light and electron microscopy revealed that IRBG74 infected Sesbania spp. via lateral root junctions under flooded conditions, but via root hairs under non-flooded conditions. Thus, IRBG74 is the first confirmed legume-nodulating symbiont from the Rhizobium (Agrobacterium) clade. Cross-inoculation studies with various Sesbania symbionts showed that S. cannabina could form fully effective symbioses with strains in the genera Rhizobium and Ensifer, only ineffective ones with Azorhizobium strains, and either partially effective (Mesorhizobium huakii) or ineffective (Mesorhizobium plurifarium) symbioses with Mesorhizobium. These data are discussed in terms of the molecular phylogeny of Sesbania and its symbionts.	2009 Oct	Cummings, Stephen P; Cummings, SP; Cummings; Gyaneshwar, Prasad; Gyaneshwar, P; Gyaneshwar; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Farruggia, Frank T; Farruggia, FT; Farruggia; Andrews, Mitchell; Andrews, M; Andrews; Humphry, David; Humphry, D; Humphry; Elliott, Geoffrey N; Elliott, GN; Elliott; Nelson, Andrew; Nelson, A; Nelson; Orr, Caroline; Orr, C; Orr; Pettitt, Deborah; Pettitt, D; Pettitt; Shah, Gopit R; Shah, GR; Shah; Santos, Scott R; Santos, SR; Santos; Krishnan, Hari B; Krishnan, HB; Krishnan; Odee, David; Odee, D; Odee; Moreira, Fatima M S; Moreira, FM; Moreira; Sprent, Janet I; Sprent, JI; Sprent; Young, J Peter W; Young, JP; Young; James, Euan K; James, EK; James	Environ Microbiol
19789986	Physical mapping of the elephant X chromosome: conservation of gene order over 105 million years.	All therian mammals (eutherians and marsupials) have an XX female/XY male sex chromosome system or some variant of it. The X and Y evolved from a homologous pair of autosomes over the 166 million years since therian mammals diverged from monotremes. Comparing the sex chromosomes of eutherians and marsupials defined an ancient X conserved region that is shared between species of these mammalian clades. However, the eutherian X (and the Y) was augmented by a recent addition (XAR) that is autosomal in marsupials. XAR is part of the X in primates, rodents, and artiodactyls (which belong to the eutherian clade Boreoeutheria), but it is uncertain whether XAR is part of the X chromosome in more distantly related eutherian mammals. Here we report on the gene content and order on the X of the elephant (Loxodonta africana)-a representative of Afrotheria, a basal endemic clade of African mammals-and compare these findings to those of other documented eutherian species. A total of 17 genes were mapped to the elephant X chromosome. Our results support the hypothesis that the eutherian X and Y chromosomes were augmented by the addition of autosomal material prior to eutherian radiation. Not only does the elephant X bear the same suite of genes as other eutherian X chromosomes, but gene order appears to have been maintained across 105 million years of evolution, perhaps reflecting strong constraints posed by the eutherian X inactivation system.	2009	Delgado, Claudia Leticia Rodríguez; Delgado, CL; Delgado; Waters, Paul D; Waters, PD; Waters; Gilbert, Clément; Gilbert, C; Gilbert; Robinson, Terence J; Robinson, TJ; Robinson; Graves, Jennifer A Marshall; Graves, JA; Graves	Chromosome Res
19772633	From sequence to dynamics: the effects of transcription factor and polymerase concentration changes on activated and repressed promoters.	The fine tuning of two features of the bacterial regulatory machinery have been known to contribute to the diversity of gene expression within the same regulon: the sequence of Transcription Factor (TF) binding sites, and their location with respect to promoters. While variations of binding sequences modulate the strength of the interaction between the TF and its binding sites, the distance between binding sites and promoters alter the interaction between the TF and the RNA polymerase (RNAP).	2009 Sep	Pérez, Abel González; Pérez, AG; Pérez; Angarica, Vladimir Espinosa; Angarica, VE; Angarica; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Vasconcelos, Ana Tereza Ribeiro; Vasconcelos, AT; Vasconcelos	BMC Mol Biol
19519856	The blaSHV-5 gene is encoded in a compound transposon duplicated in tandem in Enterobacter cloacae.	The presence of bla(SHV-5) is described in a compound transposon, duplicated in tandem and flanked by IS26 copies on a 70-kb conjugative plasmid (pHNM1), in an Enterobacter cloacae strain associated with a nosocomial outbreak that occurred in Mexico.	2009 Sep	Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos; Davila, G; Davila, G; Davila; Gonzalez, V; Gonzalez, V; Gonzalez; Alpuche-Aranda, C; Alpuche-Aranda, C; Alpuche-Aranda; López-Collada, V R; López-Collada, VR; López-Collada; Alcantar-Curiel, D; Alcantar-Curiel, D; Alcantar-Curiel; Newton, O; Newton, O; Newton; Silva-Sanchez, J; Silva-Sanchez, J; Silva-Sanchez	Clin Microbiol Infect
19465390	primers4clades: a web server that uses phylogenetic trees to design lineage-specific PCR primers for metagenomic and diversity studies.	Primers4clades is an easy-to-use web server that implements a fully automatic PCR primer design pipeline for cross-species amplification of novel sequences from metagenomic DNA, or from uncharacterized organisms, belonging to user-specified phylogenetic clades or taxa. The server takes a set of non-aligned protein coding genes, with or without introns, aligns them and computes a neighbor-joining tree, which is displayed on screen for easy selection of species or sequence clusters to design lineage-specific PCR primers. Primers4clades implements an extended CODEHOP primer design strategy based on both DNA and protein multiple sequence alignments. It evaluates several thermodynamic properties of the oligonucleotide pairs, and computes the phylogenetic information content of the predicted amplicon sets from Shimodaira-Hasegawa-like branch support values of maximum likelihood phylogenies. A non-redundant set of primer formulations is returned, ranked according to their thermodynamic properties. An amplicon distribution map provides a convenient overview of the coverage of the target locus. Altogether these features greatly help the user in making an informed choice between alternative primer pair formulations. Primers4clades is available at two mirror sites: http://maya.ccg.unam.mx/primers4clades/and http://floresta.eead.csic.es/primers4clades/. Three demo data sets and a comprehensive documentation/tutorial page are provided for easy testing of the server's capabilities and interface.	2009 Jul	Contreras-Moreira, Bruno; Contreras-Moreira, B; Contreras-Moreira; Sachman-Ruiz, Bernardo; Sachman-Ruiz, B; Sachman-Ruiz; Figueroa-Palacios, Iraís; Figueroa-Palacios, I; Figueroa-Palacios; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa	Nucleic Acids Res
19485766	Coevolution in Rhizobium-legume symbiosis?	Legume nodules, specialized structures for nitrogen fixation, are probably the result of coevolution of plants and ancestral rhizobia. Among the evolutionary processes leading to legume radiation and divergence, coevolution with rhizobia might have occurred. Alternatively, bacteria could have been constantly selected by plants, with bacteria slightly influencing plant evolution (required to fulfill the criteria for a coevolutionary hypothesis). Evidence of bacterial effects on plant evolution is scarce but being searched for. Bacterial genetic plasticity may be indicative of the large capacity of Rhizobium to adapt to legumes. Events such as symbiotic replacement, easy recruitment of symbiotic bacteria by legume plants, and lateral transfer of symbiotic genes seem to erase the coevolutionary or selected relationships in rhizobial-legume symbiosis. In particular, the hypotheses proposed are (1) Rhizobium replaced Bradyrhizobium in a few hosts of the Phaseoleae tribe, Phaseolus vulgaris and P. coccineus; (2) Rhizobium etli as a species did not coevolve with bean; and (3) beta-Proteobacteria replaced alpha-Proteobacteria in South American mimosas. Novel results on symbiosis suggest a more complex evolutionary process for nodulation that may include multiple organisms, such as mycorrhiza, nematodes, and other bacteria in addition to rhizobia.	2009 Aug	Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	DNA Cell Biol
19502410	The extent of migration of the Holliday junction is a crucial factor for gene conversion in Rhizobium etli.	Gene conversion, defined as the nonreciprocal transfer of DNA, is one result of homologous recombination. Three steps in recombination could give rise to gene conversion: (i) DNA synthesis for repair of the degraded segment, (ii) Holliday junction migration, leading to heteroduplex formation, and (iii) repair of mismatches in the heteroduplex. There are at least three proteins (RuvAB, RecG, and RadA) that participate in the second step. Their roles have been studied for homologous recombination, but evidence of their relative role in gene conversion is lacking. In this work, we showed the effect on gene conversion of mutations in ruvB, recG, and radA in Rhizobium etli, either alone or in combination, using a cointegration strategy previously developed in our laboratory. The results indicate that the RuvAB system is highly efficient for gene conversion, since its absence provokes smaller gene conversion segments than those in the wild type as well as a shift in the preferred position of conversion tracts. The RecG system possesses a dual role for gene conversion. Inactivation of recG leads to longer gene conversion tracts than those in the wild type, indicating that its activity may hinder heteroduplex extension. However, under circumstances where it is the only migration activity present (as in the ruvB radA double mutant), conversion segments can still be seen, indicating that RecG can also promote gene conversion. RadA is the least efficient system in R. etli but is still needed for the production of detectable gene conversion tracts.	2009 Aug	Castellanos, Mildred; Castellanos, M; Castellanos; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero	J Bacteriol
19372274	Transcriptional regulation shapes the organization of genes on bacterial chromosomes.	Transcription factors (TFs) are the key elements responsible for controlling the expression of genes in bacterial genomes and when visualized on a genomic scale form a dense network of transcriptional interactions among themselves and with other protein coding genes. Although the structure of transcriptional regulatory networks (TRNs) is well understood, it is not clear what constrains govern them. Here, we explore this question using the TRNs of model prokaryotes and provide a link between the transcriptional hierarchy of regulons and their genome organization. We show that, to drive the kinetics and concentration gradients, TFs belonging to big and small regulons, depending on the number of genes they regulate, organize themselves differently on the genome with respect to their targets. We then propose a conceptual model that can explain how the hierarchical structure of TRNs might be ultimately governed by the dynamic biophysical requirements for targeting DNA-binding sites by TFs. Our results suggest that the main parameters defining the position of a TF in the network hierarchy are the number and chromosomal distances of the genes they regulate and their protein concentration gradients. These observations give insights into how the hierarchical structure of transcriptional networks can be encoded on the chromosome to drive the kinetics and concentration gradients of TFs depending on the number of genes they regulate and could be a common theme valid for other prokaryotes, proposing the role of transcriptional regulation in shaping the organization of genes on a chromosome.	2009 Jun	Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Martínez-Antonio, Agustino; Martínez-Antonio, A; Martínez-Antonio	Nucleic Acids Res
19214572	Changes in beta-giardin sequence of Giardia intestinalis sensitive and resistant to albendazole strains.	Giardia intestinalis can develop resistance to albendazole, although the molecular mechanism is not understood. The aim of this study was to investigate the differences and permanent mutation in the beta-giardin gene of G. intestinalis strains: sensitive, resistant, or recovered-resistance to albendazole. The beta-giardin gene was amplified by nested polymerase chain reaction. The IC(50) values varied from 0.29 to 0.38 microg/mL for strains sensitive to albendazole. For resistant strains, the IC(50) range was 1.31-2.12 microg/mL. Recovered-sensitivity albendazole strains' IC(50) values were 0.33-0.49 microg/mL, and for strains with recovered-resistance, the IC(50) was 1.42-2.74 microg/mL. beta-giardin amplicon (720 bp) was sequenced and analysis sequence revealed several amino acid mutations from resistant and recovered-sensitive strains of G. intestinalis. Most of the mutations were located in the ROD domain of beta-giardin with a change from the sequence "TIARERA" in sensitive strains instead "IDRPRE" in resistant strains. A comparative sequence analysis in resistant, recovered-sensitive, and resistant-recovered strains revealed permanent mutation. This is the first report of combinatorial serine-proline-arginine repeats in the ROD domain of beta-giardin, whereas such repeats have been reported previously in the HEAD domain of SF-assemblin proteins. This is the first time that the resistance to albendazole correlates with genetics but it is not necessarily caused by mutations in the beta-giardin gene of G. intestinalis.	2009 Jul	Jiménez-Cardoso, Enedina; Jiménez-Cardoso, E; Jiménez-Cardoso; Eligio-García, Leticia; Eligio-García, L; Eligio-García; Cortés-Campos, Adrián; Cortés-Campos, A; Cortés-Campos; Flores-Luna, Andrés; Flores-Luna, A; Flores-Luna; Valencia-Mayoral, Pedro; Valencia-Mayoral, P; Valencia-Mayoral; Lozada-Chávez, Irma; Lozada-Chávez, I; Lozada-Chávez	Parasitol Res
19376852	Role of the extracytoplasmic function sigma factor RpoE4 in oxidative and osmotic stress responses in Rhizobium etli.	The aims of this study were to functionally characterize and analyze the transcriptional regulation and transcriptome of the Rhizobium etli rpoE4 gene. An R. etli rpoE4 mutant was sensitive to oxidative, saline, and osmotic stresses. Using transcriptional fusions, we determined that RpoE4 controls its own transcription and that it is negatively regulated by rseF (regulator of sigma rpoE4; CH03274), which is cotranscribed with rpoE4. rpoE4 expression was induced not only after oxidative, saline, and osmotic shocks, but also under microaerobic and stationary-phase growth conditions. The transcriptome analyses of an rpoE4 mutant and an rpoE4-overexpressing strain revealed that the RpoE4 extracytoplasmic function sigma factor regulates about 98 genes; 50 of them have the rpoE4 promoter motifs in the upstream regulatory regions. Interestingly, 16 of 38 genes upregulated in the rpoE4-overexpressing strain encode unknown putative cell envelope proteins. Other genes controlled by RpoE4 include rpoH2, CH00462, CH02434, CH03474, and xthA1, which encode proteins involved in the stress response (a heat shock sigma factor, a putative Mn-catalase, an alkylation DNA repair protein, pyridoxine phosphate oxidase, and exonuclease III, respectively), as well as several genes, such as CH01253, CH03555, and PF00247, encoding putative proteins involved in cell envelope biogenesis (a putative peptidoglycan binding protein, a cell wall degradation protein, and phospholipase D, respectively). These results suggest that rpoE4 has a relevant function in cell envelope biogenesis and that it plays a role as a general regulator in the responses to several kinds of stress.	2009 Jul	Martínez-Salazar, Jaime M; Martínez-Salazar, JM; Martínez-Salazar; Salazar, Emmanuel; Salazar, E; Salazar; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Ramírez-Romero, Miguel A; Ramírez-Romero, MA; Ramírez-Romero; Rivera, Javier; Rivera, J; Rivera	J Bacteriol
19459961	Trehalose accumulation in Azospirillum brasilense improves drought tolerance and biomass in maize plants.	Bacteria of the genus Azospirillum increase the grain yield of several grass crops. In this work the effect of inoculating maize plants with genetically engineered Azospirillum brasilense for trehalose biosynthesis was determined. Transformed bacteria with a plasmid harboring a trehalose biosynthesis gene-fusion from Saccharomyces cerevisiae were able to grow up to 0.5 M NaCl and to accumulate trehalose, whereas wild-type A. brasilense did not tolerate osmotic stress or accumulate significant levels of the disaccharide. Moreover, 85% of maize plants inoculated with transformed A. brasilense survived drought stress, in contrast with only 55% of plants inoculated with the wild-type strain. A 73% increase in biomass of maize plants inoculated with transformed A. brasilense compared with inoculation with the wild-type strain was found. In addition, there was a significant increase of leaf and root length in maize plants inoculated with transformed A. brasilense. Therefore, inoculation of maize plants with A. brasilense containing higher levels of trehalose confers drought tolerance and a significant increase in leaf and root biomass. This work opens the possibility that A. brasilense modified with a chimeric trehalose biosynthetic gene from yeast could increase the biomass, grain yield and stress tolerance in other relevant crops.	2009 Jul	Rodríguez-Salazar, Julieta; Rodríguez-Salazar, J; Rodríguez-Salazar; Suárez, Ramón; Suárez, R; Suárez; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Iturriaga, Gabriel; Iturriaga, G; Iturriaga	FEMS Microbiol Lett
19439403	A eukaryote-like cardiolipin synthase is present in Streptomyces coelicolor and in most actinobacteria.	Cardiolipin (CL) is an anionic membrane lipid present in bacteria, plants, and animals, but absent from archaea. It is generally thought that bacteria use an enzyme belonging to the phospholipase D superfamily as cardiolipin synthase (Cls) catalyzing a reversible phosphatidyl group transfer from one phosphatidylglycerol (PG) molecule to another PG to form CL and glycerol. In contrast, in eukaryotes a Cls of the CDP-alcohol phosphatidyltransferase superfamily uses cytidine diphosphate-diacylglycerol (CDP-DAG) as the donor of the phosphatidyl group, which is transferred to a molecule of PG to form CL. Searching the genome of the actinomycete Streptomyces coelicolor A3(2) we identified a gene coding for a putative Cls of the CDP-alcohol phosphatidyltransferase superfamily (Sco1389). Here we show that expression of Sco1389 in a CL-deficient Rhizobium etli mutant restores CL formation. In an in vitro assay Sco1389 condenses CDP-DAG with PG to form CL and therefore catalyzes the same reaction as eukaryotic cardiolipin synthases. This is the first time that a CDP-alcohol phosphatidyltransferase from bacteria is shown to be responsible for CL formation. The broad occurrence of putative orthologues of Sco1389 among the actinobacteria suggests that CL synthesis involving a eukaryotic type Cls is common in actinobacteria.	2009 Jun	Sandoval-Calderón, Mario; Sandoval-Calderón, M; Sandoval-Calderón; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Guan, Ziqiang; Guan, Z; Guan; Barona-Gómez, Francisco; Barona-Gómez, F; Barona-Gómez; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	J Biol Chem
19376903	Rhizobium sp. strain NGR234 possesses a remarkable number of secretion systems.	Rhizobium sp. strain NGR234 is a unique alphaproteobacterium (order Rhizobiales) that forms nitrogen-fixing nodules with more legumes than any other microsymbiont. We report here that the 3.93-Mbp chromosome (cNGR234) encodes most functions required for cellular growth. Few essential functions are encoded on the 2.43-Mbp megaplasmid (pNGR234b), and none are present on the second 0.54-Mbp symbiotic plasmid (pNGR234a). Among many striking features, the 6.9-Mbp genome encodes more different secretion systems than any other known rhizobia and probably most known bacteria. Altogether, 132 genes and proteins are linked to secretory processes. Secretion systems identified include general and export pathways, a twin arginine translocase secretion system, six type I transporter genes, one functional and one putative type III system, three type IV attachment systems, and two putative type IV conjugation pili. Type V and VI transporters were not identified, however. NGR234 also carries genes and regulatory networks linked to the metabolism of a wide range of aromatic and nonaromatic compounds. In this way, NGR234 can quickly adapt to changing environmental stimuli in soils, rhizospheres, and plants. Finally, NGR234 carries at least six loci linked to the quenching of quorum-sensing signals, as well as one gene (ngrI) that possibly encodes a novel type of autoinducer I molecule.	2009 Jun	Schmeisser, Christel; Schmeisser, C; Schmeisser; Liesegang, Heiko; Liesegang, H; Liesegang; Krysciak, Dagmar; Krysciak, D; Krysciak; Bakkou, Nadia; Bakkou, N; Bakkou; Le Quéré, Antoine; Le Quéré, A; Le Quéré; Wollherr, Antje; Wollherr, A; Wollherr; Heinemeyer, Isabelle; Heinemeyer, I; Heinemeyer; Morgenstern, Burkhard; Morgenstern, B; Morgenstern; Pommerening-Röser, Andreas; Pommerening-Röser, A; Pommerening-Röser; Flores, Margarita; Flores, M; Flores; Palacios, Rafael; Palacios, R; Palacios; Brenner, Sydney; Brenner, S; Brenner; Gottschalk, Gerhard; Gottschalk, G; Gottschalk; Schmitz, Ruth A; Schmitz, RA; Schmitz; Broughton, William J; Broughton, WJ; Broughton; Perret, Xavier; Perret, X; Perret; Strittmatter, Axel W; Strittmatter, AW; Strittmatter; Streit, Wolfgang R; Streit, WR; Streit	Appl Environ Microbiol
19502326	Pseudomonas cuatrocienegasensis sp. nov., isolated from an evaporating lagoon in the Cuatro Cienegas valley in Coahuila, Mexico.	Nine Gram-negative, rod-shaped, non-spore-forming isolates with identical or very similar repetitive-sequence-based PCR profiles were recovered from an evaporative lagoon in Mexico. Two strains, designated 1N(T) and 3N, had virtually identical 16S rRNA gene sequences and, on the basis of these sequences, were identified as members of the genus Pseudomonas, with Pseudomonas peli R-20805(T) as the closest relative. All nine isolates had practically identical whole-cell protein profiles. The major fatty acids [C(16 : 0,) C(18 : 1)omega7c and summed feature a (C(16 : 1)omega7 and/or C(16 : 1)omega6c)] of strains 1N(T) and 3N supported their affiliation with the genus Pseudomonas. The DNA-DNA reassociation values with respect to P. peli LMG 23201(T) and other closely related Pseudomonas species were <15 %. Physiological and biochemical tests allowed phenotypic differentiation of the strains analysed, including strain 1N(T), from the five phylogenetically closest Pseudomonas species. On the basis of the data obtained by using this polyphasic taxonomic approach, the nine strains represent a novel species, for which the name Pseudomonas cuatrocienegasensis sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is 1N(T) (=LMG 24676(T)=CIP 109853(T)).	2009 Jun	Escalante, Ana E; Escalante, AE; Escalante; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Martínez-Aguilar, Lourdes; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar; Rodríguez-Verdugo, Alejandra; Rodríguez-Verdugo, A; Rodríguez-Verdugo; González-González, Andrea; González-González, A; González-González; Toribio-Jiménez, Jeiry; Toribio-Jiménez, J; Toribio-Jiménez; Souza, Valeria; Souza, V; Souza	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
19291210	Pseudomonas fluorescens and closely-related fluorescent pseudomonads as biocontrol agents of soil-borne phytopathogens.	Many strains of Pseudomonas fluorescens show potential for biological control of phytopathogens especially root pathogens. In taxonomic terms, several of them are indeed P. fluorescens sensu stricto, while others belong in fact to neighbouring species of the 'P. fluorescens' complex or to ill-defined related species within the fluorescent Pseudomonas spp. These bacteria have become prominent models for rhizosphere ecological studies and analysis of bacterial secondary metabolism, and in recent years knowledge on their plant-beneficial traits has been considerably enhanced by widening the focus beyond the case of phytopathogen-directed antagonism. Current genomic analyses of rhizosphere competence and biocontrol traits will likely lead to the development of novel tools for effective management of indigenous and inoculated P. fluorescens biocontrol agents and a better exploitation of their plant-beneficial properties for sustainable agriculture.	2009 May	Couillerot, O; Couillerot, O; Couillerot; Prigent-Combaret, C; Prigent-Combaret, C; Prigent-Combaret; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Moënne-Loccoz, Y; Moënne-Loccoz, Y; Moënne-Loccoz	Lett Appl Microbiol
19118366	SMb20651 is another acyl carrier protein from Sinorhizobium meliloti.	Acyl carrier proteins (ACPs) are small acidic proteins that carry growing acyl chains during fatty acid or polyketide synthesis. In rhizobia, there are four different and well-characterized ACPs: AcpP, NodF, AcpXL and RkpF. The genome sequence of Sinorhizobium meliloti 1021 reveals two additional ORFs that possibly encode additional ACPs. One of these, smb20651, is located on the plasmid pSymB as part of an operon. The genes of the operon encode a putative asparagine synthetase (AsnB), the predicted ACP (SMb20651), a putative long-chain fatty acyl-CoA ligase (SMb20650) and a putative ammonium-dependent NAD+ synthetase (NadE1). When SMb20651 was overexpressed in Escherichia coli, [3H]beta-alanine, a biosynthetic building block of 4'-phosphopantetheine, was incorporated into the protein in vivo. The purified SMb20651 was modified with 4'-phosphopantetheine in the presence of S. meliloti holo-ACP synthase (AcpS). Also, holo-SMb20651 was modified in vitro with a malonyl group by malonyl CoA-ACP transacylase. In E. coli, coexpression of SMb20651 together with other proteins such as AcpS and SMb20650 led to the formation of additional forms of SMb20651. In this bacterium, acylation of SMb20651 with C12 : 0 or C18 : 0 fatty acids was detected, demonstrating that this protein is involved in fatty acid biosynthesis or transfer. Expression of SMb20651 was detected in S. meliloti as holo-SMb20651 and acyl-SMb20651.	2009 Jan	Ramos-Vega, Ana Laura; Ramos-Vega, AL; Ramos-Vega; Dávila-Martínez, Yadira; Dávila-Martínez, Y; Dávila-Martínez; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Contreras-Martínez, Sandra; Contreras-Martínez, S; Contreras-Martínez; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara	Microbiology (Reading)
19202087	The Rhizobium etli RpoH1 and RpoH2 sigma factors are involved in different stress responses.	The physiological role and transcriptional expression of Rhizobium etli sigma factors rpoH1 and rpoH2 are reported in this work. Both rpoH1 and rpoH2 were able to complement the temperature-sensitive phenotype of an Escherichia coli rpoH mutant. The R. etli rpoH1 mutant was sensitive to heat shock, sodium hypochlorite and hydrogen peroxide, whereas the rpoH2 mutant was sensitive to NaCl and sucrose. The rpoH2 rpoH1 double mutant had increased sensitivity to heat shock and oxidative stress when compared with the rpoH1 single mutant. This suggests that in R. etli, RpoH1 is the main heat-shock sigma factor, but a more complete protective response could be achieved with the participation of RpoH2. Conversely, RpoH2 is involved in osmotic tolerance. In symbiosis with bean plants, the R. etli rpoH1 and rpoH2 rpoH1 mutants still elicited nodule formation, but exhibited reduced nitrogenase activity and bacterial viability in early and late symbiosis compared with nodules produced by rpoH2 mutants and wild-type strains. In addition, nodules formed by R. etli rpoH1 and rpoH2 rpoH1 mutants showed premature senescence. It was also determined that fixNf and fixKf expression was affected in rpoH1 mutants. Both rpoH genes were induced under microaerobic conditions and in the stationary growth phase, but not in response to heat shock. Analysis of the upstream region of rpoH1 revealed a sigma70 and a probable sigmaE promoter, whereas in rpoH2, one probable sigmaE-dependent promoter was detected. In conclusion, the two RpoH proteins operate under different stress conditions, RpoH1 in heat-shock and oxidative responses, and RpoH2 in osmotic tolerance.	2009 Feb	Martínez-Salazar, Jaime M; Martínez-Salazar, JM; Martínez-Salazar; Sandoval-Calderón, Mario; Sandoval-Calderón, M; Sandoval-Calderón; Guo, Xianwu; Guo, X; Guo; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; Reyes, Alma; Reyes, A; Reyes; Loza, Maria G; Loza, MG; Loza; Rivera, Javier; Rivera, J; Rivera; Alvarado-Affantranger, Xochitl; Alvarado-Affantranger, X; Alvarado-Affantranger; Sánchez, Federico; Sánchez, F; Sánchez; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; Ramírez-Romero, Miguel A; Ramírez-Romero, MA; Ramírez-Romero	Microbiology (Reading)
19040456	Burkholderia spp. are the most competitive symbionts of Mimosa, particularly under N-limited conditions.	Bacteria isolated from Mimosa nodules in Taiwan, Papua New Guinea, Mexico and Puerto Rico were identified as belonging to either the alpha- or beta-proteobacteria. The beta-proteobacterial Burkholderia and Cupriavidus strains formed effective symbioses with the common invasive species Mimosa diplotricha, M. pigra and M. pudica, but the alpha-proteobacterial Rhizobium etli and R. tropici strains produced a range of symbiotic phenotypes from no nodulation through ineffective to effective nodulation, depending on Mimosa species. Competition studies were performed between three of the alpha-proteobacteria (R. etli TJ167, R. tropici NGR181 and UPRM8021) and two of the beta-rhizobial symbionts (Burkholderia mimosarum PAS44 and Cupriavidus taiwanensis LMG19424) for nodulation of these invasive Mimosa species. Under flooded conditions, B. mimosarum PAS44 out-competed LMG19424 and all three alpha-proteobacteria to the point of exclusion. This advantage was not explained by initial inoculum levels, rates of bacterial growth, rhizobia-rhizobia growth inhibition or individual nodulation rate. However, the competitive domination of PAS44 over LMG19424 was reduced in the presence of nitrate for all three plant hosts. The largest significant effect was for M. pudica, in which LMG19424 formed 57% of the nodules in the presence of 0.5 mM potassium nitrate. In this host, ammonium also had a similar, but lesser, effect. Comparable results were also found using an N-containing soil mixture, and environmental N levels are therefore suggested as a factor in the competitive success of the bacterial symbiont in vivo.	2009 Apr	Elliott, Geoffrey N; Elliott, GN; Elliott; Chou, Jui-Hsing; Chou, JH; Chou; Chen, Wen-Ming; Chen, WM; Chen; Bloemberg, Guido V; Bloemberg, GV; Bloemberg; Bontemps, Cyril; Bontemps, C; Bontemps; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Velázquez, Encarna; Velázquez, E; Velázquez; Young, J Peter W; Young, JP; Young; Sprent, Janet I; Sprent, JI; Sprent; James, Euan K; James, EK; James	Environ Microbiol
19305506	Filling kinetic gaps: dynamic modeling of metabolism where detailed kinetic information is lacking.	Integrative analysis between dynamical modeling of metabolic networks and data obtained from high throughput technology represents a worthy effort toward a holistic understanding of the link among phenotype and dynamical response. Even though the theoretical foundation for modeling metabolic network has been extensively treated elsewhere, the lack of kinetic information has limited the analysis in most of the cases. To overcome this constraint, we present and illustrate a new statistical approach that has two purposes: integrate high throughput data and survey the general dynamical mechanisms emerging for a slightly perturbed metabolic network.	2009	Resendis-Antonio, Osbaldo; Resendis-Antonio, O; Resendis-Antonio	PLoS One
19265557	DISTILLER: a data integration framework to reveal condition dependency of complex regulons in Escherichia coli.	We present DISTILLER, a data integration framework for the inference of transcriptional module networks. Experimental validation of predicted targets for the well-studied fumarate nitrate reductase regulator showed the effectiveness of our approach in Escherichia coli. In addition, the condition dependency and modularity of the inferred transcriptional network was studied. Surprisingly, the level of regulatory complexity seemed lower than that which would be expected from RegulonDB, indicating that complex regulatory programs tend to decrease the degree of modularity.	2009	Lemmens, Karen; Lemmens, K; Lemmens; De Bie, Tijl; De Bie, T; De Bie; Dhollander, Thomas; Dhollander, T; Dhollander; De Keersmaecker, Sigrid C; De Keersmaecker, SC; De Keersmaecker; Thijs, Inge M; Thijs, IM; Thijs; Schoofs, Geert; Schoofs, G; Schoofs; De Weerdt, Ami; De Weerdt, A; De Weerdt; De Moor, Bart; De Moor, B; De Moor; Vanderleyden, Jos; Vanderleyden, J; Vanderleyden; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Engelen, Kristof; Engelen, K; Engelen; Marchal, Kathleen; Marchal, K; Marchal	Genome Biol
19071199	Differential roles of proteins involved in migration of Holliday junctions on recombination and tolerance to DNA damaging agents in Rhizobium etli.	The recombination genes involved in Holliday junction migration (ruvB, recG, radA) and heteroduplex editing (mutS) were studied in the alpha-proteobacterium Rhizobium etli. The genes were interrupted with a loxPSp interposon and R. etli mutants, either single or in combination, were constructed by marker exchange. Our results show that these systems play a differential role in sensitivity to DNA damaging agents and recombination in R. etli. RuvB appears to be the main system for tolerance toward agents instigating single- or double-strand breaks (such as UV light, methyl methanesulphonate and nalidixic acid) while the RecG and RadA systems play minor roles in tolerance to these agents. Using five different recombination assays, we have found that a ruvB null mutant showed a notable reduction in recombination proficiency, while a radA mutant was only weakly affected. A null mutation in recG had the opposite effect, enhancing recombination in most of our assays. This effect was more clearly seen in an assay that measured recombination between divergent sequences (i.e. homeologous), but is unaffected by inactivation of mutS. These data indicate that RecG in R. etli limits intra- and intergenomic plasticity.	2009 Mar	Martínez-Salazar, Jaime M; Martínez-Salazar, JM; Martínez-Salazar; Zuñiga-Castillo, Jacobo; Zuñiga-Castillo, J; Zuñiga-Castillo; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero	Gene
19231290	Phenotypic differences between BCG vaccines at the proteome level.	To contribute to Mycobacterium bovis BCG characterization, two substrains were analyzed using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2D-PAGE) and mass spectrometry (MS), based on their protective efficacy in a pulmonary-tuberculosis mouse model. Cell-fraction proteins of BCG Denmark and Phipps substrains were separated into approximately 500 spots in 2D-PAGE. The proteomes were similar in protein number, and isoelectric point (pI) and molecular mass (MM) distribution. Statistical analysis, resulted in 72 spots with no change, and 168 and 90 unique for BCG Phipps or Denmark, respectively. Two hundred and fourteen spots showed changes in intensity of >1-fold, 138 of Denmark, and 76 of Phipps. Seventeen spots were selected for MS-based identification (13 from Phipps and 4 from Denmark), including unique, as well as proteins with changes in intensity. The proteins identified participate in virulence, detoxification, adaptation, lipid metabolism, information pathways, cell wall and cell processes, intermediary metabolism and respiration, or still hypotheticals. Our findings contribute to phenotype characterization of BCG substrains and provide new elements to consider for the design of diagnostic tools, drug targets and a new vaccine against tuberculosis based upon protein expression through quantitative statistical analysis.	2009 Mar	Rodríguez-Alvarez, Mauricio; Rodríguez-Alvarez, M; Rodríguez-Alvarez; Mendoza-Hernández, Guillermo; Mendoza-Hernández, G; Mendoza-Hernández; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Calva, Juan José; Calva, JJ; Calva; López-Vidal, Yolanda; López-Vidal, Y; López-Vidal	Tuberculosis (Edinb)
19348629	The condition-dependent transcriptional network in Escherichia coli.	Thanks to the availability of high-throughput omics data, bioinformatics approaches are able to hypothesize thus-far undocumented genetic interactions. However, due to the amount of noise in these data, inferences based on a single data source are often unreliable. A popular approach to overcome this problem is to integrate different data sources. In this study, we describe DISTILLER, a novel framework for data integration that simultaneously analyzes microarray and motif information to find modules that consist of genes that are co-expressed in a subset of conditions, and their corresponding regulators. By applying our method on publicly available data, we evaluated the condition-specific transcriptional network of Escherichia coli. DISTILLER confirmed 62% of 736 interactions described in RegulonDB, and 278 novel interactions were predicted.	2009 Mar	Lemmens, Karen; Lemmens, K; Lemmens; De Bie, Tijl; De Bie, T; De Bie; Dhollander, Thomas; Dhollander, T; Dhollander; Monsieurs, Pieter; Monsieurs, P; Monsieurs; De Moor, Bart; De Moor, B; De Moor; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Engelen, Kristof; Engelen, K; Engelen; Marchal, Kathleen; Marchal, K; Marchal	Ann N Y Acad Sci
19139238	Transcriptional regulation and signal-peptide-dependent secretion of exolevanase (LsdB) in the endophyte Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus.	Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus utilizes plant sucrose with a constitutively expressed levansucrase (LsdA), producing extracellular levan, which may be degraded under energetically unfavored conditions. Reverse transcriptase-PCR analysis revealed that lsdA and the downstream exolevanase gene (lsdB) form an operon. lsdB transcription was induced during growth with low fructose concentrations (0.44 to 33 mM) and repressed by glucose. Transport of LsdB to the periplasm involved N-terminal signal peptide cleavage. Type II secretion mutants failed to transfer LsdB across the outer membrane, impeding levan hydrolysis.	2009 Mar	Menéndez, Carmen; Menéndez, C; Menéndez; Banguela, Alexander; Banguela, A; Banguela; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Hernández, Lázaro; Hernández, L; Hernández	Appl Environ Microbiol
18974181	EcoCyc: a comprehensive view of Escherichia coli biology.	EcoCyc (http://EcoCyc.org) provides a comprehensive encyclopedia of Escherichia coli biology. EcoCyc integrates information about the genome, genes and gene products; the metabolic network; and the regulatory network of E. coli. Recent EcoCyc developments include a new initiative to represent and curate all types of E. coli regulatory processes such as attenuation and regulation by small RNAs. EcoCyc has started to curate Gene Ontology (GO) terms for E. coli and has made a dataset of E. coli GO terms available through the GO Web site. The curation and visualization of electron transfer processes has been significantly improved. Other software and Web site enhancements include the addition of tracks to the EcoCyc genome browser, in particular a type of track designed for the display of ChIP-chip datasets, and the development of a comparative genome browser. A new Genome Omics Viewer enables users to paint omics datasets onto the full E. coli genome for analysis. A new advanced query page guides users in interactively constructing complex database queries against EcoCyc. A Macintosh version of EcoCyc is now available. A series of Webinars is available to instruct users in the use of EcoCyc.	2009 Jan	Keseler, Ingrid M; Keseler, IM; Keseler; Bonavides-Martínez, César; Bonavides-Martínez, C; Bonavides-Martínez; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Gunsalus, Robert P; Gunsalus, RP; Gunsalus; Johnson, D Aaron; Johnson, DA; Johnson; Krummenacker, Markus; Krummenacker, M; Krummenacker; Nolan, Laura M; Nolan, LM; Nolan; Paley, Suzanne; Paley, S; Paley; Paulsen, Ian T; Paulsen, IT; Paulsen; Peralta-Gil, Martin; Peralta-Gil, M; Peralta-Gil; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Shearer, Alexander Glennon; Shearer, AG; Shearer; Karp, Peter D; Karp, PD; Karp	Nucleic Acids Res
19076632	Regulation by transcription factors in bacteria: beyond description.	Transcription is an essential step in gene expression and its understanding has been one of the major interests in molecular and cellular biology. By precisely tuning gene expression, transcriptional regulation determines the molecular machinery for developmental plasticity, homeostasis and adaptation. In this review, we transmit the main ideas or concepts behind regulation by transcription factors and give just enough examples to sustain these main ideas, thus avoiding a classical ennumeration of facts. We review recent concepts and developments: cis elements and trans regulatory factors, chromosome organization and structure, transcriptional regulatory networks (TRNs) and transcriptomics. We also summarize new important discoveries that will probably affect the direction of research in gene regulation: epigenetics and stochasticity in transcriptional regulation, synthetic circuits and plasticity and evolution of TRNs. Many of the new discoveries in gene regulation are not extensively tested with wetlab approaches. Consequently, we review this broad area in Inference of TRNs and Dynamical Models of TRNs. Finally, we have stepped backwards to trace the origins of these modern concepts, synthesizing their history in a timeline schema.	2009 Jan	Balleza, Enrique; Balleza, E; Balleza; López-Bojorquez, Lucia N; López-Bojorquez, LN; López-Bojorquez; Martínez-Antonio, Agustino; Martínez-Antonio, A; Martínez-Antonio; Resendis-Antonio, Osbaldo; Resendis-Antonio, O; Resendis-Antonio; Lozada-Chávez, Irma; Lozada-Chávez, I; Lozada-Chávez; Balderas-Martínez, Yalbi I; Balderas-Martínez, YI; Balderas-Martínez; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	FEMS Microbiol Rev
19120461	Rhizobia with different symbiotic efficiencies nodulate Acaciella angustissima in Mexico, including Sinorhizobium chiapanecum sp. nov. which has common symbiotic genes with Sinorhizobium mexicanum.	Bacteria from nodules of the legume Acaciella angustissima native to the south of Mexico were characterized genetically and their nodulation and competitiveness were evaluated. Phylogenetic studies derived from rpoB gene sequences indicated that A. angustissima is nodulated by Sinorhizobium mexicanum, Rhizobium tropici, Mesorhizobium plurifarium and Agrobacterium tumefaciens and by bacteria related to Sinorhizobium americanum, Sinorhizobium terangae, Rhizobium etli and Rhizobium gallicum. A new lineage related to S. terangae is recognized based on the sequences of gyrA, nolR, recA, rpoB and rrs genes, DNA-DNA hybridization and phenotypic characteristics. The name for this new species is Sinorhizobium chiapanecum and its type strain is ITTG S70T. The symbiotic genes nodA and nifH were similar to those from S. mexicanum strains, which are Acaciella symbionts as well, with nodA gene sequences grouped within a cluster of nod genes from strains that nodulate plants from the Mimosoideae subfamily of the Leguminosae. Sinorhizobium isolates were the most frequently obtained from A. angustissima nodules and were among the best strains to promote plant growth in A. angustissima and to compete in interstrain nodule competition assays. Lateral transfer of symbiotic genes is not evident among the genera that nodulate A. angustissima (Rhizobium, Sinorhizobium and Mesorhizobium) but may occur among the sympatric and closely related sinorhizobia that nodulate Acaciella.	2009 Jan	Rincón-Rosales, Reiner; Rincón-Rosales, R; Rincón-Rosales; Lloret, Lourdes; Lloret, L; Lloret; Ponce, Edith; Ponce, E; Ponce; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	FEMS Microbiol Ecol
18771575	Essential role of MYB transcription factor: PvPHR1 and microRNA: PvmiR399 in phosphorus-deficiency signalling in common bean roots.	Phosphorus (P), an essential element for plants, is one of the most limiting nutrients for plant growth. A few transcription factor (TF) genes involved in P-starvation signalling have been characterized for Arabidopsis thaliana and rice. Crop production of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.), the most important legume for human consumption, is often limited by low P in the soil. Despite its agronomic importance, nothing is known about transcriptional regulation in P-deficient bean plants. We functionally characterized the P-deficiency-induced MYB TF TC3604 (Dana Farber Cancer Institute, Common Bean Gene Index v.2.0), ortholog to AtPHR1 (PvPHR1). For its study, we applied RNAi technology in bean composite plants. PvPHR1 is a positive regulator of genes implicated in P transport, remobilization and homeostasis. Although there are no reports on the regulatory roles of microRNAs (miRNA) in bean, we demonstrated that PvmiR399 is an essential component of the PvPHR1 signalling pathway. The analysis of DICER-like1 (PvDCL1) silenced bean composite plants suppressed for accumulation of PvmiR399 and other miRNAs suggested that miR399 is a negative regulator of the ubiquitin E2 conjugase: PvPHO2 expression. Our results set the basis for understanding the signalling for P-starvation responses in common bean and may contribute to crop improvement.	2008 Dec	Valdés-López, Oswaldo; Valdés-López, O; Valdés-López; Arenas-Huertero, Catalina; Arenas-Huertero, C; Arenas-Huertero; Ramírez, Mario; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Sánchez, Federico; Sánchez, F; Sánchez; Vance, Carroll P; Vance, CP; Vance; Luis Reyes, José; Luis Reyes, J; Luis Reyes; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	Plant Cell Environ
18973688	Factors affecting the concordance between orthologous gene trees and species tree in bacteria.	As originally defined, orthologous genes implied a reflection of the history of the species. In recent years, many studies have examined the concordance between orthologous gene trees and species trees in bacteria. These studies have produced contradictory results that may have been influenced by orthologous gene misidentification and artefactual phylogenetic reconstructions. Here, using a method that allows the detection and exclusion of false positives during identification of orthologous genes, we address the question of whether putative orthologous genes within bacteria really reflect the history of the species.	2008 Oct	Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; González, Víctor; González, V; González	BMC Evol Biol
18989367	A comparative structural bioinformatics analysis of the insulin receptor family ectodomain based on phylogenetic information.	The insulin receptor (IR), the insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF1R) and the insulin receptor-related receptor (IRR) are covalently-linked homodimers made up of several structural domains. The molecular mechanism of ligand binding to the ectodomain of these receptors and the resulting activation of their tyrosine kinase domain is still not well understood. We have carried out an amino acid residue conservation analysis in order to reconstruct the phylogeny of the IR Family. We have confirmed the location of ligand binding site 1 of the IGF1R and IR. Importantly, we have also predicted the likely location of the insulin binding site 2 on the surface of the fibronectin type III domains of the IR. An evolutionary conserved surface on the second leucine-rich domain that may interact with the ligand could not be detected. We suggest a possible mechanical trigger of the activation of the IR that involves a slight 'twist' rotation of the last two fibronectin type III domains in order to face the likely location of insulin. Finally, a strong selective pressure was found amongst the IRR orthologous sequences, suggesting that this orphan receptor has a yet unknown physiological role which may be conserved from amphibians to mammals.	2008	Rentería, Miguel E; Rentería, ME; Rentería; Gandhi, Neha S; Gandhi, NS; Gandhi; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Helmerhorst, Erik; Helmerhorst, E; Helmerhorst; Mancera, Ricardo L; Mancera, RL; Mancera	PLoS One
18989455	High-resolution copy-number variation map reflects human olfactory receptor diversity and evolution.	Olfactory receptors (ORs), which are involved in odorant recognition, form the largest mammalian protein superfamily. The genomic content of OR genes is considerably reduced in humans, as reflected by the relatively small repertoire size and the high fraction ( approximately 55%) of human pseudogenes. Since several recent low-resolution surveys suggested that OR genomic loci are frequently affected by copy-number variants (CNVs), we hypothesized that CNVs may play an important role in the evolution of the human olfactory repertoire. We used high-resolution oligonucleotide tiling microarrays to detect CNVs across 851 OR gene and pseudogene loci. Examining genomic DNA from 25 individuals with ancestry from three populations, we identified 93 OR gene loci and 151 pseudogene loci affected by CNVs, generating a mosaic of OR dosages across persons. Our data suggest that approximately 50% of the CNVs involve more than one OR, with the largest CNV spanning 11 loci. In contrast to earlier reports, we observe that CNVs are more frequent among OR pseudogenes than among intact genes, presumably due to both selective constraints and CNV formation biases. Furthermore, our results show an enrichment of CNVs among ORs with a close human paralog or lacking a one-to-one ortholog in chimpanzee. Interestingly, among the latter we observed an enrichment in CNV losses over gains, a finding potentially related to the known diminution of the human OR repertoire. Quantitative PCR experiments performed for 122 sampled ORs agreed well with the microarray results and uncovered 23 additional CNVs. Importantly, these experiments allowed us to uncover nine common deletion alleles that affect 15 OR genes and five pseudogenes. Comparison to the chimpanzee reference genome revealed that all of the deletion alleles are human derived, therefore indicating a profound effect of human-specific deletions on the individual OR gene content. Furthermore, these deletion alleles may be used in future genetic association studies of olfactory inter-individual differences.	2008 Nov	Hasin, Yehudit; Hasin, Y; Hasin; Olender, Tsviya; Olender, T; Olender; Khen, Miriam; Khen, M; Khen; Gonzaga-Jauregui, Claudia; Gonzaga-Jauregui, C; Gonzaga-Jauregui; Kim, Philip M; Kim, PM; Kim; Urban, Alexander Eckehart; Urban, AE; Urban; Snyder, Michael; Snyder, M; Snyder; Gerstein, Mark B; Gerstein, MB; Gerstein; Lancet, Doron; Lancet, D; Lancet; Korbel, Jan O; Korbel, JO; Korbel	PLoS Genet
18791003	Multilocus sequence analysis for assessment of the biogeography and evolutionary genetics of four Bradyrhizobium species that nodulate soybeans on the asiatic continent.	A highly supported maximum-likelihood species phylogeny for the genus Bradyrhizobium was inferred from a supermatrix obtained from the concatenation of partial atpD, recA, glnII, and rpoB sequences corresponding to 33 reference strains and 76 bradyrhizobia isolated from the nodules of Glycine max (soybean) trap plants inoculated with soil samples from Myanmar, India, Nepal, and Vietnam. The power of the multigene approach using multiple strains per species was evaluated in terms of overall tree resolution and phylogenetic congruence, representing a practical and portable option for bacterial molecular systematics. Potential pitfalls of the approach are highlighted. Seventy-five of the isolates could be classified as B. japonicum type Ia (USDA110/USDA122-like), B. liaoningense, B. yuanmingense, or B. elkanii, whereas one represented a novel Bradyrhizobium lineage. Most Nepalese B. japonicum Ia isolates belong to a highly epidemic clone closely related to strain USDA110. Significant phylogenetic evidence against the monophyly of the of B. japonicum I and Ia lineages was found. Analysis of their DNA polymorphisms revealed high population distances, significant genetic differentiation, and contrasting population genetic structures, suggesting that the strains in the Ia lineage are misclassified as B. japonicum. The DNA polymorphism patterns of all species conformed to the expectations of the neutral mutation and population equilibrium models and, excluding the B. japonicum Ia lineage, were consistent with intermediate recombination levels. All species displayed epidemic clones and had broad geographic and environmental distribution ranges, as revealed by mapping climate types and geographic origins of the isolates on the species tree.	2008 Nov	Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Rojas-Jiménez, Keilor; Rojas-Jiménez, K; Rojas-Jiménez; Contreras-Moreira, Bruno; Contreras-Moreira, B; Contreras-Moreira; Mahna, Suresh K; Mahna, SK; Mahna; Prasad, Braj Nandan; Prasad, BN; Prasad; Moe, Hla; Moe, H; Moe; Selvaraju, Suresh Babu; Selvaraju, SB; Selvaraju; Thierfelder, Heidemarie; Thierfelder, H; Thierfelder; Werner, Dietrich; Werner, D; Werner	Appl Environ Microbiol
18954463	Functional architecture of Escherichia coli: new insights provided by a natural decomposition approach.	Previous studies have used different methods in an effort to extract the modular organization of transcriptional regulatory networks. However, these approaches are not natural, as they try to cluster strongly connected genes into a module or locate known pleiotropic transcription factors in lower hierarchical layers. Here, we unravel the transcriptional regulatory network of Escherichia coli by separating it into its key elements, thus revealing its natural organization. We also present a mathematical criterion, based on the topological features of the transcriptional regulatory network, to classify the network elements into one of two possible classes: hierarchical or modular genes.	2008 Oct	Freyre-González, Julio A; Freyre-González, JA; Freyre-González; Alonso-Pavón, José A; Alonso-Pavón, JA; Alonso-Pavón; Treviño-Quintanilla, Luis G; Treviño-Quintanilla, LG; Treviño-Quintanilla; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Genome Biol
18922190	Prediction of TF target sites based on atomistic models of protein-DNA complexes.	The specific recognition of genomic cis-regulatory elements by transcription factors (TFs) plays an essential role in the regulation of coordinated gene expression. Studying the mechanisms determining binding specificity in protein-DNA interactions is thus an important goal. Most current approaches for modeling TF specific recognition rely on the knowledge of large sets of cognate target sites and consider only the information contained in their primary sequence.	2008 Oct	Angarica, Vladimir Espinosa; Angarica, VE; Angarica; Pérez, Abel González; Pérez, AG; Pérez; Vasconcelos, Ana T; Vasconcelos, AT; Vasconcelos; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Contreras-Moreira, Bruno; Contreras-Moreira, B; Contreras-Moreira	BMC Bioinformatics
18840678	Transcriptional regulation constrains the organization of genes on eukaryotic chromosomes.	Genetic material in eukaryotes is tightly packaged in a hierarchical manner into multiple linear chromosomes within the nucleus. Although it is known that eukaryotic transcriptional regulation is complex and requires an intricate coordination of several molecular events both in space and time, whether the complexity of this process constrains genome organization is still unknown. Here, we present evidence for the existence of a higher-order organization of genes across and within chromosomes that is constrained by transcriptional regulation. In particular, we reveal that the target genes (TGs) of transcription factors (TFs) for the yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, are encoded in a highly ordered manner both across and within the 16 chromosomes. We show that (i) the TGs of a majority of TFs show a strong preference to be encoded on specific chromosomes, (ii) the TGs of a significant number of TFs display a strong preference (or avoidance) to be encoded in regions containing particular chromosomal landmarks such as telomeres and centromeres, and (iii) the TGs of most TFs are positionally clustered within a chromosome. Our results demonstrate that specific organization of genes that allowed for efficient control of transcription within the nuclear space has been selected during evolution. We anticipate that uncovering such higher-order organization of genes in other eukaryotes will provide insights into nuclear architecture, and will have implications in genetic engineering experiments, gene therapy, and understanding disease conditions that involve chromosomal aberrations.	2008 Oct	Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Babu, M Madan; Babu, MM; Babu	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
18940741	In silico analysis of protein neoplastic biomarkers for cervix and uterine cancer.	Worldwide, cervical and uterine cancers are the most deadly cancers in women, with high prevalences, especially in developing countries. The Human Protein Atlas (HPA) portal was explored for proteins expressed in a tissue- or cervix and uterine cancer-specific manner. The group of proteins differentially expressed and with enhanced expression in the glandular and surface epithelial (squamous) cells retrieved from HPA were further explored using the Protein Information and Knowledge Extractor (PIKE) portal to compile biological information that is found in different databases, and repositories on the Internet. Thus, the lists of candidate proteins found in HPA, and PIKE portals may be used as a starting point for the discovery and validation of biomarkers for cervix and uterine cancer employing proteomics approaches as described in the present article.	2008 Oct	Rodríguez-Pérez, Mario A; Rodríguez-Pérez, MA; Rodríguez-Pérez; Medina-Aunon, Alberto; Medina-Aunon, A; Medina-Aunon; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio M; Encarnación-Guevara, SM; Encarnación-Guevara; Bernal-Silvia, Sofia; Bernal-Silvia, S; Bernal-Silvia; Barrera-Saldaña, Hugo; Barrera-Saldaña, H; Barrera-Saldaña; Albar-Ramírez, Juan Pablo; Albar-Ramírez, JP; Albar-Ramírez	Clin Transl Oncol
18708506	Sinorhizobium meliloti mutants deficient in phosphatidylserine decarboxylase accumulate phosphatidylserine and are strongly affected during symbiosis with alfalfa.	Sinorhizobium meliloti contains phosphatidylglycerol, cardiolipin, phosphatidylcholine, and phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) as major membrane lipids. PE is formed in two steps. In the first step, phosphatidylserine synthase (Pss) condenses serine with CDP-diglyceride to form phosphatidylserine (PS), and in the second step, PS is decarboxylated by phosphatidylserine decarboxylase (Psd) to form PE. In this study we identified the sinorhizobial psd gene coding for Psd. A sinorhizobial mutant deficient in psd is unable to form PE but accumulates the anionic phospholipid PS. Properties of PE-deficient mutants lacking either Pss or Psd were compared with those of the S. meliloti wild type. Whereas both PE-deficient mutants grew in a wild-type-like manner on many complex media, they were unable to grow on minimal medium containing high phosphate concentrations. Surprisingly, the psd-deficient mutant could grow on minimal medium containing low concentrations of inorganic phosphate, while the pss-deficient mutant could not. Addition of choline to the minimal medium rescued growth of the pss-deficient mutant, CS111, to some extent but inhibited growth of the psd-deficient mutant, MAV01. When the two distinct PE-deficient mutants were analyzed for their ability to form a nitrogen-fixing root nodule symbiosis with their alfalfa host plant, they behaved strikingly differently. The Pss-deficient mutant, CS111, initiated nodule formation at about the same time point as the wild type but did form about 30% fewer nodules than the wild type. In contrast, the PS-accumulating mutant, MAV01, initiated nodule formation much later than the wild type and formed 90% fewer nodules than the wild type. The few nodules formed by MAV01 seemed to be almost devoid of bacteria and were unable to fix nitrogen. Leaves of alfalfa plants inoculated with the mutant MAV01 were yellowish, indicating that the plants were starved for nitrogen. Therefore, changes in lipid composition, including the accumulation of bacterial PS, prevent the establishment of a nitrogen-fixing root nodule symbiosis.	2008 Oct	Vences-Guzmán, Miguel Angel; Vences-Guzmán, MA; Vences-Guzmán; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp	J Bacteriol
19017108	Transcriptional regulation and signaling in phosphorus starvation: what about legumes?	The availability of soil phosphorus (P), an essential element, is one of the most important requirements for plant growth and crop production. The morphological and physiological adaptations evolved by plants to cope with P starvation have been well characterized. Several P deficiency plant responses are regulated at the transcriptional level. Microarray analysis has generated valuable information on global gene expression in Arabidopsis thaliana grown under P-stress. Despite the identification of P responsive genes, little is known about the regulation of gene expression changes. Four transcription factors, PHR1, WRKY75, ZAT6 and BHLH32, involved in P starvation signaling have been characterized in Arabidopsis, and signaling pathways are deciphered. This review analyzes the current knowledge of transcriptional regulation of P starvation responses in Arabidopsis vis-à-vis legumes such as lupine, common bean and Medicago truncatula. The knowledge on regulatory and signaling mechanisms involved in P acquisition and use in legumes will be useful for improvement of these crops, which account for a large proportion of the world's crop production, providing good nutritional quality feed and food.	2008 Oct	Valdés-López, Oswaldo; Valdés-López, O; Valdés-López; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	J Integr Plant Biol
18638408	Enzymatic, immunological and phylogenetic characterization of Brucella suis urease.	The sequenced genomes of the Brucella spp. have two urease operons, ure-1 and ure-2, but there is evidence that only one is responsible for encoding an active urease. The present work describes the purification and the enzymatic and phylogenomic characterization of urease from Brucella suis strain 1330. Additionally, the urease reactivity of sera from patients diagnosed with brucellosis was examined.	2008 Jul	Contreras-Rodriguez, Araceli; Contreras-Rodriguez, A; Contreras-Rodriguez; Quiroz-Limon, Jose; Quiroz-Limon, J; Quiroz-Limon; Martins, Ana M; Martins, AM; Martins; Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta; Avila-Calderon, Eric; Avila-Calderon, E; Avila-Calderon; Sriranganathan, Nammalwar; Sriranganathan, N; Sriranganathan; Boyle, Stephen M; Boyle, SM; Boyle; Lopez-Merino, Ahide; Lopez-Merino, A; Lopez-Merino	BMC Microbiol
18613977	Immunity related genes in dipterans share common enrichment of AT-rich motifs in their 5' regulatory regions that are potentially involved in nucleosome formation.	Understanding the transcriptional regulation mechanisms in response to environmental challenges is of fundamental importance in biology. Transcription factors associated to response elements and the chromatin structure had proven to play important roles in gene expression regulation. We have analyzed promoter regions of dipteran genes induced in response to immune challenge, in search for particular sequence patterns involved in their transcriptional regulation.	2008 Jul	Hernandez-Romano, Jesus; Hernandez-Romano, J; Hernandez-Romano; Carlos-Rivera, Francisco J; Carlos-Rivera, FJ; Carlos-Rivera; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Lamadrid-Figueroa, Hector; Lamadrid-Figueroa, H; Lamadrid-Figueroa; Valverde-Garduño, Veronica; Valverde-Garduño, V; Valverde-Garduño; Rodriguez, Mario H; Rodriguez, MH; Rodriguez; Martinez-Barnetche, Jesus; Martinez-Barnetche, J; Martinez-Barnetche	BMC Genomics
18596979	A common genomic framework for a diverse assembly of plasmids in the symbiotic nitrogen fixing bacteria.	This work centres on the genomic comparisons of two closely-related nitrogen-fixing symbiotic bacteria, Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar viciae 3841 and Rhizobium etli CFN42. These strains maintain a stable genomic core that is also common to other rhizobia species plus a very variable and significant accessory component. The chromosomes are highly syntenic, whereas plasmids are related by fewer syntenic blocks and have mosaic structures. The pairs of plasmids p42f-pRL12, p42e-pRL11 and p42b-pRL9 as well large parts of p42c with pRL10 are shown to be similar, whereas the symbiotic plasmids (p42d and pRL10) are structurally unrelated and seem to follow distinct evolutionary paths. Even though purifying selection is acting on the whole genome, the accessory component is evolving more rapidly. This component is constituted largely for proteins for transport of diverse metabolites and elements of external origin. The present analysis allows us to conclude that a heterogeneous and quickly diversifying group of plasmids co-exists in a common genomic framework.	2008 Jul	Crossman, Lisa C; Crossman, LC; Crossman; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; McAnnula, Craig; McAnnula, C; McAnnula; Lozano, Luis; Lozano, L; Lozano; Vernikos, Georgios S; Vernikos, GS; Vernikos; Acosta, José L; Acosta, JL; Acosta; Ghazoui, Zara F; Ghazoui, ZF; Ghazoui; Hernández-González, Ismael; Hernández-González, I; Hernández-González; Meakin, Georgina; Meakin, G; Meakin; Walker, Alan W; Walker, AW; Walker; Hynes, Michael F; Hynes, MF; Hynes; Young, J Peter W; Young, JP; Young; Downie, J Allan; Downie, JA; Downie; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Johnston, Andrew W B; Johnston, AW; Johnston; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; Parkhill, Julian; Parkhill, J; Parkhill; González, Víctor; González, V; González	PLoS One
18533836	Improvement of drought tolerance and grain yield in common bean by overexpressing trehalose-6-phosphate synthase in rhizobia.	Improving stress tolerance and yield in crops are major goals for agriculture. Here, we show a new strategy to increase drought tolerance and yield in legumes by overexpressing trehalose-6-phosphate synthase in the symbiotic bacterium Rhizobium etli. Phaseolus vulgaris (common beans) plants inoculated with R. etli overexpressing trehalose-6-phosphate synthase gene had more nodules with increased nitrogenase activity and higher biomass compared with plants inoculated with wild-type R. etli. In contrast, plants inoculated with an R. etli mutant in trehalose-6-phosphate synthase gene had fewer nodules and less nitrogenase activity and biomass. Three-week-old plants subjected to drought stress fully recovered whereas plants inoculated with a wild-type or mutant strain wilted and died. The yield of bean plants inoculated with R. etli overexpressing trehalose-6-phosphate synthase gene and grown with constant irrigation increased more than 50%. Macroarray analysis of 7,200 expressed sequence tags from nodules of plants inoculated with the strain overexpressing trehalose-6-phosphate synthase gene revealed upregulation of genes involved in stress tolerance and carbon and nitrogen metabolism, suggesting a signaling mechanism for trehalose. Thus, trehalose metabolism in rhizobia is key for signaling plant growth, yield, and adaptation to abiotic stress, and its manipulation has a major agronomical impact on leguminous plants.	2008 Jul	Suárez, Ramón; Suárez, R; Suárez; Wong, Arnoldo; Wong, A; Wong; Ramírez, Mario; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Barraza, Aarón; Barraza, A; Barraza; Orozco, María Del Carmen; Orozco, Mdel C; Orozco; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Lara, Miguel; Lara, M; Lara; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Iturriaga, Gabriel; Iturriaga, G; Iturriaga	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
18502926	Multichromosomal genome structure and confirmation of diazotrophy in novel plant-associated Burkholderia species.	Pulsed-field gel electrophoresis and 16S rRNA hybridization experiments showed that multichromosome genome structures and very large genome sizes (6.46 to 8.73 Mb) are prevalent in novel plant-associated Burkholderia species. (15)N(2) isotope dilution assays revealed unambiguous diazotrophy in these novel species. nifH gene sequence analysis, often used to determine phylogenetic relatedness among diazotrophs, showed tight clusters of Burkholderia species, which were clearly distinct from those of other diazotrophs.	2008 Jul	Martínez-Aguilar, Lourdes; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar; Díaz, Rafael; Díaz, R; Díaz; Peña-Cabriales, Juan José; Peña-Cabriales, JJ; Peña-Cabriales; Estrada-de Los Santos, Paulina; Estrada-de Los Santos, P; Estrada-de Los Santos; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	Appl Environ Microbiol
18599833	The new group of non-pathogenic plant-associated nitrogen-fixing Burkholderia spp. shares a conserved quorum-sensing system, which is tightly regulated by the RsaL repressor.	A novel group of nitrogen-fixing plant-associated Burkholderia species has emerged in the last few years. The purpose of this investigation was to determine if these species possess an N-acylhomoserine lactone (AHL) quorum-sensing (QS) cell-cell signalling system, and whether it is important for nitrogen fixation and other phenotypic features in Burkholderia kururiensis. It was determined that B. kururiensis, and other members of this Burkholderia species cluster, contain at least one highly conserved system, designated BraI/R, which produces and responds to N-dodecanoyl-3-oxo-homoserine lactone (C12-3-oxo-AHL). The BraI/R AHL QS is not involved in the regulation of nitrogen fixation or in several other important phenotypes, indicating that it may not be a global regulatory system. The BraI/R system is similar to LasI/R of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and, as with lasI/R, there is a repressor gene, rsaL, between the braI/R genes. B. kururiensis normally synthesizes very low levels of C12-3-oxo-AHL, but the situation dramatically changes when RsaL is missing since an rsaL mutant displays a marked increase in AHL production. This unique stringent regulation indicates that RsaL could be an on/off switch for AHL QS in B. kururiensis and the ability to produce very high levels of AHL also questions the role of this molecule in the novel group of Burkholderia. The presence of a well-conserved and distinct AHL QS system among all the diazotrophic Burkholderia is a further indication that they are closely related, and that this system might play an important and conserved role in the lifestyle of this novel group of bacterial species.	2008 Jul	Suárez-Moreno, Zulma Rocí; Suárez-Moreno, ZR; Suárez-Moreno; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Venturi, Vittorio; Venturi, V; Venturi	Microbiology (Reading)
18433868	The repABC plasmid family.	repABC plasmids are widely distributed among alpha-proteobacteria. They are especially common in Rhizobiales. Some strains of this bacterial order can contain multiple repABC replicons indicating that this plasmid family includes several incompatibility groups. The replication and stable maintenance of these replicons depend on the presence of a repABC operon. The repABC operons sequenced to date share some general characteristics. All of them contain at least three protein-encoding genes: repA, repB and repC. The first two genes encode proteins involved in plasmid segregation, whereas repC encodes a protein crucial for replication. The origin of replication maps within the repC gene. In contrast, the centromere-like sequence (parS) can be located at various positions in the operon. In this review we will summarize current knowledge about this plasmid family, with special emphasis on their structural diversity and their complex genetic regulation. Finally, we will examine some ideas about their evolutionary origin and trends.	2008 Jul	Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Cervantes-Rivera, Ramón; Cervantes-Rivera, R; Cervantes-Rivera; Gutiérrez-Ríos, Rosa María; Gutiérrez-Ríos, RM; Gutiérrez-Ríos	Plasmid
18466918	The role of DNA-binding specificity in the evolution of bacterial regulatory networks.	Understanding the mechanisms by which transcriptional regulatory networks (TRNs) change through evolution is a fundamental problem.Here, we analyze this question using data from Escherichia coli and Bacillus subtilis, and find that paralogy relationships are insufficient to explain the global or local role observed for transcription factors (TFs) within regulatory networks. Our results provide a picture in which DNA-binding specificity, a molecular property that can be measured in different ways, is a predictor of the role of transcription factors. In particular, we observe that global regulators consistently display low levels of binding specificity, while displaying comparatively higher expression values in microarray experiments. In addition, we find a strong negative correlation between binding specificity and the number of co-regulators that help coordinate genetic expression on a genomic scale. A close look at several orthologous TFs,including FNR, a regulator found to be global in E. coli and local in B.subtilis, confirms the diagnostic value of specificity in order to understand their regulatory function, and highlights the importance of evaluating the metabolic and ecological relevance of effectors as another variable in the evolutionary equation of regulatory networks. Finally, a general model is presented that integrates some evolutionary forces and molecular properties,aiming to explain how regulons grow and shrink, as bacteria tune their regulation to increase adaptation.	2008 Jun	Lozada-Chávez, Irma; Lozada-Chávez, I; Lozada-Chávez; Angarica, Vladimir Espinosa; Angarica, VE; Angarica; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Contreras-Moreira, Bruno; Contreras-Moreira, B; Contreras-Moreira	J Mol Biol
18424522	Transcriptional interference and repression modulate the conjugative ability of the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium etli.	Bacteria of the order Rhizobiales are able to establish nitrogen-fixing symbioses with legumes. Commonly, genes for symbiosis are harbored on large symbiotic plasmids. Although the transfer of symbiotic plasmids is commonly detected in nature, there are few experimentally characterized examples. In Rhizobium etli, the product of rctA inhibits the conjugation of the symbiotic plasmid by reducing the transcription of the virB operon. rctA is transcribed divergently from this operon, and its product is predicted to have a DNA binding domain. In the present study, using DNase I footprinting and binding assays, we demonstrated the specific binding of RctA to the virB operon promoter. A 9-bp motif in the spacer region of this promoter (the rctA binding motif box) and the presence of a functional -10 region were critical elements for RctA binding. Transcriptional fusion analyses revealed that the elimination of either element provoked a relief of RctA-mediated repression. These data support a model in which RctA inhibits the access of the RNA polymerase to the virB promoter. Interestingly, rctA expression levels were modulated by transcriptional interference from transcripts emanating from the virB promoter. This phenomenon adds another level of regulation for this system, thus revealing a novel mechanism of plasmid transfer regulation in the Rhizobiales.	2008 Jun	Sepúlveda, Edgardo; Sepúlveda, E; Sepúlveda; Pérez-Mendoza, Daniel; Pérez-Mendoza, D; Pérez-Mendoza; Ramírez-Romero, Miguel A; Ramírez-Romero, MA; Ramírez-Romero; Soto, María J; Soto, MJ; Soto; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Sanjuán, Juan; Sanjuán, J; Sanjuán; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero	J Bacteriol
18312393	Mutations in lipopolysaccharide biosynthetic genes impair maize rhizosphere and root colonization of Rhizobium tropici CIAT899.	Three transposon mutants of Rhizobium tropici CIAT899 affected in lipopolysaccharide (LPS) biosynthesis were characterized and their maize rhizosphere and endophytic root colonization abilities were evaluated. The disrupted genes coded for the following putative products: the ATPase component of an O antigen ABC-2 type transporter (wzt), a nucleotide-sugar dehydratase (lpsbeta2) and a bifunctional enzyme producing GDP-mannose (noeJ). Electrophoretic analysis of affinity purified LPS showed that all mutants lacked the smooth LPS bands indicating an O antigen minus phenotype. In the noeJ mutant, the rough LPS band migrated faster than the parental band, suggesting a truncated LPS core. When inoculated individually, the wzt and noeJ mutants colonize the rhizosphere and root to a lower extent than the parental strain while no differences were observed between the lpsbeta2 mutant and the parental strain. All mutants were impaired in competitive rhizosphere and root colonization. Pleiotropic effects of the mutations on known colonization traits such as motility and growth rate were observed, but they were not sufficient to explain the colonization behaviours. It was found that the LPS mutants were sensitive to the maize antimicrobial 6-methoxy-2-benzoxazolinone (MBOA). Only the combined effects of altered growth rate and susceptibility to maize antimicrobials could account for all the observed colonization phenotypes. The results suggest an involvement of the LPS in protecting R. tropici against maize defence response during rhizosphere and root colonization.	2008 May	Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Rosenblueth, Monica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Luyten, Ellen; Luyten, E; Luyten; Vanderleyden, Jos; Vanderleyden, J; Vanderleyden; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Environ Microbiol
18180252	Analysis of copy number variation in the rhesus macaque genome identifies candidate loci for evolutionary and human disease studies.	Copy number variants (CNVs) are heritable gains and losses of genomic DNA in normal individuals. While copy number variation is widely studied in humans, our knowledge of CNVs in other mammalian species is more limited. We have designed a custom array-based comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) platform with 385 000 oligonucleotide probes based on the reference genome sequence of the rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta), the most widely studied non-human primate in biomedical research. We used this platform to identify 123 CNVs among 10 unrelated macaque individuals, with 24% of the CNVs observed in multiple individuals. We found that segmental duplications were significantly enriched at macaque CNV loci. We also observed significant overlap between rhesus macaque and human CNVs, suggesting that certain genomic regions are prone to recurrent CNV formation and instability, even across a total of approximately 50 million years of primate evolution ( approximately 25 million years in each lineage). Furthermore, for eight of the CNVs that were observed in both humans and macaques, previous human studies have reported a relationship between copy number and gene expression or disease susceptibility. Therefore, the rhesus macaque offers an intriguing, non-human primate outbred model organism with which hypotheses concerning the specific functions of phenotypically relevant human CNVs can be tested.	2008 Apr	Lee, Arthur S; Lee, AS; Lee; Gutiérrez-Arcelus, María; Gutiérrez-Arcelus, M; Gutiérrez-Arcelus; Perry, George H; Perry, GH; Perry; Vallender, Eric J; Vallender, EJ; Vallender; Johnson, Welkin E; Johnson, WE; Johnson; Miller, Gregory M; Miller, GM; Miller; Korbel, Jan O; Korbel, JO; Korbel; Lee, Charles; Lee, C; Lee	Hum Mol Genet
17985353	An efficient conformational sampling method for homology modeling.	The structural refinement of protein models is a challenging problem in protein structure prediction (Moult et al., Proteins 2003;53(Suppl 6):334-339). Most attempts to refine comparative models lead to degradation rather than improvement in model quality, so most current comparative modeling procedures omit the refinement step. However, it has been shown that even in the absence of alignment errors and using optimal templates, methods based on a single template have intrinsic limitations, and that refinement is needed to improve model accuracy. It is thought that failure of current methods originates on one hand from the inaccuracy of the effective free energy functions adopted, which do not represent properly the energetic balance in the native state, and on the other hand from the difficulty to sample the high dimensional and rugged free energy landscape of protein folding, in the search for the global minimum. Here, we address this second issue. We define the evolutionary and vibrational armonics subspace (EVA), a reduced sampling subspace that consists of a combination of evolutionarily favored directions, defined by the principal components of the structural variation within a homologous family, plus topologically favored directions, derived from the low frequency normal modes of the vibrational dynamics, up to 50 dimensions. This subspace is accurate enough so that the cores of most proteins can be represented within 1 A accuracy, and reduced enough so that Replica Exchange Monte Carlo (Hukushima and Nemoto, J Phys Soc Jpn 1996;65:1604-1608; Hukushima et al., Int J Mod Phys C: Phys Comput 1996;7:337-344; Mitsutake et al., J Chem Phys 2003;118:6664-6675; Mitsutake et al., J Chem Phys 2003;118:6676-6688) (REMC) can be applied. REMC is one of the best sampling methods currently available, but its applicability is restricted to spaces of small dimensionality. We show that the combination of the EVA subspace and REMC can essentially solve the optimization problem for backbone atoms in the reduced sampling subspace, even for rather rugged free energy landscapes. Applications and limitations of this methodology are finally discussed.	2008 Apr	Han, Rongsheng; Han, R; Han; Leo-Macias, Alejandra; Leo-Macias, A; Leo-Macias; Zerbino, Daniel; Zerbino, D; Zerbino; Bastolla, Ugo; Bastolla, U; Bastolla; Contreras-Moreira, Bruno; Contreras-Moreira, B; Contreras-Moreira; Ortiz, Angel R; Ortiz, AR; Ortiz	Proteins
18398195	Bacillus coahuilensis sp. nov., a moderately halophilic species from a desiccation lagoon in the Cuatro Ciénegas Valley in Coahuila, Mexico.	A moderately halophilic, Gram-positive and rod-shaped bacterium, strain m4-4T, was isolated from a Chihuahuan desert lagoon in Cuatro Ciénegas, Coahuila, Mexico. Strain m4-4T was found to grow optimally at 30-37 degrees C, pH 7.0-8.0 and 5 % NaCl and to tolerate from 0.5 % to 10 % NaCl. It was shown to be aerobic. The genomic DNA G+C content was about 37 mol%. Strain m4-4T exhibited minimal or no growth on most sugars tested. Its major cellular fatty acids were C14 : 0, C16 : 0 and C18 : 1. Based on phylogenetic analysis of 16S rRNA and recA gene sequences, we observed that the closest relatives of the isolate are moderately halophilic Bacillus species, with 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity ranging from 96.6 to 97.4 % (Bacillus marisflavi, Bacillus aquimaris and Bacillus vietnamensis). Additionally, using genomic data it was determined that the type strain contains a total of nine rRNA operons with three slightly different sequences. On the basis of phenotypic and molecular properties, strain m4-4T represents a novel species within the genus Bacillus, for which the name Bacillus coahuilensis sp. nov. is proposed, with the type strain m4-4T (=NRRL B-41737T =CECT 7197T).	2008 Apr	Cerritos, René; Cerritos, R; Cerritos; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Eguiarte, Luis E; Eguiarte, LE; Eguiarte; Herrera-Estrella, Luis; Herrera-Estrella, L; Herrera-Estrella; Alcaraz-Peraza, Luis D; Alcaraz-Peraza, LD; Alcaraz-Peraza; Arvizu-Gómez, Jackeline L; Arvizu-Gómez, JL; Arvizu-Gómez; Olmedo, Gabriela; Olmedo, G; Olmedo; Ramirez, Enrique; Ramirez, E; Ramirez; Siefert, Janet L; Siefert, JL; Siefert; Souza, Valeria; Souza, V; Souza	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
18407964	Evidence for sugar signalling in the regulation of asparagine synthetase gene expressed in Phaseolus vulgaris roots and nodules.	A cDNA clone, designated as PvNAS2, encoding asparagine amidotransferase (asparagine synthetase) was isolated from nodule tissue of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris cv. Negro Jamapa). Southern blot analysis indicated that asparagine synthetase in bean is encoded by a small gene family. Northern analysis of RNAs from various plant organs demonstrated that PvNAS2 is highly expressed in roots, followed by nodules in which it is mainly induced during the early days of nitrogen fixation. Investigations with the PvNAS2 promoter gusA fusion revealed that the expression of PvNAS2 in roots is confined to vascular bundles and meristematic tissues, while in root nodules its expression is solely localized to vascular traces and outer cortical cells encompassing the central nitrogen-fixing zone, but never detected in either infected or non-infected cells located in the central region of the nodule. PvNAS2 is down-regulated when carbon availability is reduced in nodules, and the addition of sugars to the plants, mainly glucose, boosted its induction, leading to the increased asparagine production. In contrast to PvNAS2 expression and the concomitant asparagine synthesis, glucose supplement resulted in the reduction of ureide content in nodules. Studies with glucose analogues as well as hexokinase inhibitors suggested a role for hexokinase in the sugar-sensing mechanism that regulates PvNAS2 expression in roots. In light of the above results, it is proposed that, in bean, low carbon availability in nodules prompts the down-regulation of the asparagine synthetase enzyme and concomitantly asparagine production. Thereby a favourable environment is created for the efficient transfer of the amido group of glutamine for the synthesis of purines, and then ureide generation.	2008	Silvente, Sonia; Silvente, S; Silvente; Reddy, Pallavolu M; Reddy, PM; Reddy; Khandual, Sanghamitra; Khandual, S; Khandual; Blanco, Lourdes; Blanco, L; Blanco; Alvarado-Affantranger, Xochitl; Alvarado-Affantranger, X; Alvarado-Affantranger; Sanchez, Federico; Sanchez, F; Sanchez; Lara-Flores, Miguel; Lara-Flores, M; Lara-Flores	J Exp Bot
18182018	Molecular cloning, characterization and regulation of two different NADH-glutamate synthase cDNAs in bean nodules.	NADH-dependent glutamate synthase (NADH-GOGAT) is a key enzyme in primary ammonia assimilation in Phaseolus vulgaris nodules. Two different types of cDNA clones of PvNADH-GOGAT were isolated from the nodule cDNA libraries. The full-length cDNA clones of PvNADH-GOGAT-I (7.4 kb) and PvNADH-GOGAT-II (7.0 kb), which displayed an 83% homology between them, were isolated using cDNA library screening, 'cDNA library walking' and RT-PCR amplification. Southern analysis employing specific 5' cDNA probes derived from PvNADH-GOGAT-I and PvNADH-GOGAT-II indicated the existence of a single copy of each gene in the bean genome. Both these proteins contain approximately 100 amino acid sequences theoretically addressing each isoenzyme to different subcellular compartments. RT-PCR analysis indicated that PvNADH-GOGAT-II expression is higher than PvNADH-GOGAT-I during nodule development. Expression analysis by RT-PCR also revealed that both of these genes are differentially regulated by sucrose. On the other hand, the expression of PvNADH-GOGAT-I, but not PvNADH-GOGAT-II, was inhibited with nitrogen compounds. In situ hybridization and promoter expression analyses demonstrated that the NADH-GOGAT-I and -II genes are differentially expressed in bean root and nodule tissues. In silico analyses of the NADH-GOGAT promoters revealed the presence of potential cis elements in them that could mediate differential tissue-specific, and sugar and amino acid responsive expression of these genes.	2008 Apr	Blanco, Lourdes; Blanco, L; Blanco; Reddy, Pallavolu M; Reddy, PM; Reddy; Silvente, Sonia; Silvente, S; Silvente; Bucciarelli, Bruna; Bucciarelli, B; Bucciarelli; Khandual, Sanghamitra; Khandual, S; Khandual; Alvarado-Affantranger, Xochitl; Alvarado-Affantranger, X; Alvarado-Affantranger; Sánchez, Federico; Sánchez, F; Sánchez; Miller, Susan; Miller, S; Miller; Vance, Carroll; Vance, C; Vance; Lara-Flores, Miguel; Lara-Flores, M; Lara-Flores	Plant Cell Environ
18310436	Requirement of a plasmid-encoded catalase for survival of Rhizobium etli CFN42 in a polyphenol-rich environment.	Nitrogen-fixing bacteria collectively called rhizobia are adapted to live in polyphenol-rich environments. The mechanisms that allow these bacteria to overcome toxic concentrations of plant polyphenols have not been clearly elucidated. We used a crude extract of polyphenols released from the seed coat of the black bean to simulate a polyphenol-rich environment and analyze the response of the bean-nodulating strain Rhizobium etli CFN42. Our results showed that the viability of the wild type as well as that of derivative strains cured of plasmids p42a, p42b, p42c, and p42d or lacking 200 kb of plasmid p42e was not affected in this environment. In contrast, survival of the mutant lacking plasmid p42f was severely diminished. Complementation analysis revealed that the katG gene located on this plasmid, encoding the only catalase present in this bacterium, restored full resistance to testa polyphenols. Our results indicate that oxidation of polyphenols due to interaction with bacterial cells results in the production of a high quantity of H(2)O(2), whose removal by the katG-encoded catalase plays a key role for cell survival in a polyphenol-rich environment.	2008 Apr	García-de Los Santos, Alejandro; García-de Los Santos, A; García-de Los Santos; López, Erika; López, E; López; Cubillas, Ciro A; Cubillas, CA; Cubillas; Noel, K Dale; Noel, KD; Noel; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero	Appl Environ Microbiol
18366643	Impact of Transcription Units rearrangement on the evolution of the regulatory network of gamma-proteobacteria.	In the past years, several studies begun to unravel the structure, dynamical properties, and evolution of transcriptional regulatory networks. However, even those comparative studies that focus on a group of closely related organisms are limited by the rather scarce knowledge on regulatory interactions outside a few model organisms, such as E. coli among the prokaryotes.	2008 Mar	González Pérez, Abel D; González Pérez, AD; González Pérez; González González, Evelyn; González González, E; González González; Espinosa Angarica, Vladimir; Espinosa Angarica, V; Espinosa Angarica; Vasconcelos, Ana Tereza R; Vasconcelos, AT; Vasconcelos; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	BMC Genomics
18156266	The LysR-type transcriptional regulator LeuO controls expression of several genes in Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi.	LeuO is a LysR-type transcriptional regulator that has been implicated in the bacterial stringent response and in the virulence of Salmonella. A genomic analysis with Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi revealed that LeuO is a positive regulator of OmpS1, OmpS2, AssT, and STY3070. In contrast, LeuO down-regulated the expression of OmpX, Tpx, and STY1978. Transcriptional fusions supported the positive and negative LeuO regulation. Expression of ompS1, assT, and STY3070 was induced in an hns mutant, consistent with the notion that H-NS represses these genes; transcriptional activity was lower for tpx and STY1978 in an hns background, suggesting that this global regulatory protein has a positive effect. In contrast, ompS2 and ompX expression appeared to be H-NS independent. LeuO specifically bound to the 5' intergenic regions of ompS2, assT, STY3070, ompX, and tpx, while it was not observed to bind to the promoter region of STY1978, suggesting that LeuO regulates in direct and indirect ways. In this work, a novel set of genes belonging to the LeuO regulon are described; interestingly, these genes are involved in a variety of biological processes, suggesting that LeuO is a global regulator in Salmonella.	2008 Mar	Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Gallego-Hernández, A L; Gallego-Hernández, AL; Gallego-Hernández; Encarnación, S; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Fernández-Mora, M; Fernández-Mora, M; Fernández-Mora; Martínez-Batallar, A G; Martínez-Batallar, AG; Martínez-Batallar; Salgado, H; Salgado, H; Salgado; Oropeza, R; Oropeza, R; Oropeza; Calva, E; Calva, E; Calva	J Bacteriol
18065619	Bacteriophage prevalence in the genus Azospirillum and analysis of the first genome sequence of an Azospirillum brasilense integrative phage.	The prevalence of bacteriophages was investigated in 24 strains of four species of plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria belonging to the genus Azospirillum. Upon induction by mitomycin C, the release of phage particles was observed in 11 strains from three species. Transmission electron microscopy revealed two distinct sizes of particles, depending on the identity of the Azospirillum species, typical of the Siphoviridae family. Pulsed-field gel electrophoresis and hybridization experiments carried out on phage-encapsidated DNAs revealed that all phages isolated from A. lipoferum and A. doebereinerae strains had a size of about 10 kb whereas all phages isolated from A. brasilense strains displayed genome sizes ranging from 62 to 65 kb. Strong DNA hybridizing signals were shown for most phages hosted by the same species whereas no homology was found between phages harbored by different species. Moreover, the complete sequence of the A. brasilense Cd bacteriophage (phiAb-Cd) genome was determined as a double-stranded DNA circular molecule of 62,337 pb that encodes 95 predicted proteins. Only 14 of the predicted proteins could be assigned functions, some of which were involved in DNA processing, phage morphogenesis, and bacterial lysis. In addition, the phiAb-Cd complete genome was mapped as a prophage on a 570-kb replicon of strain A. brasilense Cd, and a region of 27.3 kb of phiAb-Cd was found to be duplicated on the 130-kb pRhico plasmid previously sequenced from A. brasilense Sp7, the parental strain of A. brasilense Cd.	2008 Feb	Boyer, Mickaël; Boyer, M; Boyer; Haurat, Jacqueline; Haurat, J; Haurat; Samain, Sylvie; Samain, S; Samain; Segurens, Béatrice; Segurens, B; Segurens; Gavory, Frédérick; Gavory, F; Gavory; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Mavingui, Patrick; Mavingui, P; Mavingui; Rohr, René; Rohr, R; Rohr; Bally, René; Bally, R; Bally; Wisniewski-Dyé, Florence; Wisniewski-Dyé, F; Wisniewski-Dyé	Appl Environ Microbiol
17671982	Operons and the effect of genome redundancy in deciphering functional relationships using phylogenetic profiles.	Phylogenetic profiles (PPs) are one of the most promising methods for predicting functional relationships by genomic context. The idea behind PPs is that if the products of two genes have a functional interdependence, the genes should both be either present or absent across genomes. One of the main problems with PPs is that evolutionarily close organisms tend to share a higher number of genes resulting in the overscoring of PP-relatedness. The proper measure of the overscoring effect of evolutionary redundancy requires examples of both functionally related genes (positive gold standards) and functionally unrelated genes (negative gold standards). Since experimentally verified functional interactions are only available for a few model organisms, there is a need for an alternative to gold standards. The presence of operons (polycistronic transcription units formed of functionally related genes) in prokaryotic genomes offers such an alternative. Genes in operons are located next to each other in the same DNA strand, and thus their presence should result in a higher proportion of predicted functional interactions among adjacent genes in the same strand than among adjacent genes in opposite strands. Under the preceding principle, we present a confidence value (CV) designed for evaluating predictions of functional interactions obtained using PPs. We first show that the CV corresponds to a positive predictive value calculated using experimentally known operons and further validate operon predictions based on this CV in other organisms using available microarray data. Then, we use a fixed CV of 0.90 as a reference to compare PP predictions obtained using different nonredundant genome datasets filtered at varying thresholds of genomic similarity. Our results demonstrate that nonredundant genome datasets increase the number of high-quality predictions by an average of 20%. Confidence values as those presented here should help compare other strategies and scoring systems to use phylogenetic profiles and other genomic context methods for predicting functional interactions.	2008 Feb	Moreno-Hagelsieb, Gabriel; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb; Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga	Proteins
17979985	Phosphatidylcholine synthesis is required for optimal function of Legionella pneumophila virulence determinants.	The function of phosphatidylcholine (PC) in the bacterial cell envelope remains cryptic. We show here that productive interaction of the respiratory pathogen Legionella pneumophila with host cells requires bacterial PC. Synthesis of the lipid in L. pneumophila was shown to occur via either phospholipid N-methyltransferase (PmtA) or phosphatidylcholine synthase (PcsA), but the latter pathway was demonstrated to be of predominant importance. Loss of PC from the cell envelope caused lowered yields of L. pneumophila within macrophages as well as loss of high multiplicity cytotoxicity, while mutants defective in PC synthesis could be complemented either by reintroduction of PcsA or by overproduction of PmtA. The lowered yields and reduced cytotoxicity in mutants with defective PC biosynthesis were due to three related defects. First, there was a poorly functioning Dot/Icm apparatus, which delivers substrates required for intracellular growth into the cytosol of infected cells. Second, there was reduced bacterial binding to macrophages, possibly due to loss of PC or a PC derivative on the bacterium that is recognized by the host cell. Finally, strains lacking PC had low steady-state levels of flagellin protein, a deficit that had been previously associated with the phenotypes of lowered cytotoxicity and poor cellular adhesion.	2008 Feb	Conover, Gloria M; Conover, GM; Conover; Martinez-Morales, Fernando; Martinez-Morales, F; Martinez-Morales; Heidtman, Matthew I; Heidtman, MI; Heidtman; Luo, Zhao-Qing; Luo, ZQ; Luo; Tang, May; Tang, M; Tang; Chen, Cui; Chen, C; Chen; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Isberg, Ralph R; Isberg, RR; Isberg	Cell Microbiol
18177306	Thiamine limitation determines the transition from aerobic to fermentative-like metabolism in Rhizobium etli CE3.	Both thiamine and biotin when added to minimal medium subcultures reversed the fermentative-like metabolism exhibited by Rhizobium etli CE3. Thiamine auxotrophs lacking thiCOGE genes were used to investigate the role of thiamine in this medium. A thiC1169::miniTn5lacZ1 thiamine auxotroph subjected to the above subcultures resulted in growth arrest, reduced pyruvate-dehydrogenase activity, and a smaller amount of poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate compared with the CE3 strain. Moreover, thiC and thiEb genes were overexpressed as result of thiamine limitation. The absence of classical thi genes suggests that thiamine is synthesized with low efficiency by an alternative pathway. Low levels of thiamine cause the CE3 strain to exhibit a fermentative-like metabolism.	2008 Feb	Taboada, Hermenegildo; Taboada, H; Taboada; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Vargas, María del Carmen; Vargas, Mdel C; Vargas; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Miranda-Ríos, Juan; Miranda-Ríos, J; Miranda-Ríos; Soberón, Mario; Soberón, M; Soberón; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	FEMS Microbiol Lett
17993534	Multiple phospholipid N-methyltransferases with distinct substrate specificities are encoded in Bradyrhizobium japonicum.	Phosphatidylcholine (PC) is the major phospholipid in eukaryotic membranes. In contrast, it is found in only a few prokaryotes including members of the family Rhizobiaceae. In these bacteria, PC is required for pathogenic and symbiotic plant-microbe interactions, as shown for Agrobacterium tumefaciens and Bradyrhizobium japonicum. At least two different phospholipid N-methyltransferases (PmtA and PmtX) have been postulated to convert phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) to PC in B. japonicum by three consecutive methylation reactions. However, apart from the known PmtA enzyme, we identified and characterized three additional pmt genes (pmtX1, pmtX3, and pmtX4), which can be functionally expressed in Escherichia coli, showing different substrate specificities. B. japonicum expressed only two of these pmt genes (pmtA and pmtX1) under all conditions tested. PmtA predominantly converts PE to monomethyl PE, whereas PmtX1 carries out both subsequent methylation steps. B. japonicum is the first bacterium known to use two functionally different Pmts. It also expresses a PC synthase, which produces PC via condensation of CDP-diacylglycerol and choline. Our study shows that PC biosynthesis in bacteria can be much more complex than previously anticipated.	2008 Jan	Hacker, Stephanie; Hacker, S; Hacker; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Aktas, Meriyem; Aktas, M; Aktas; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Narberhaus, Franz; Narberhaus, F; Narberhaus	J Bacteriol
18158297	RegulonDB (version 6.0): gene regulation model of Escherichia coli K-12 beyond transcription, active (experimental) annotated promoters and Textpresso navigation.	RegulonDB (http://regulondb.ccg.unam.mx/) is the primary reference database offering curated knowledge of the transcriptional regulatory network of Escherichia coli K12, currently the best-known electronically encoded database of the genetic regulatory network of any free-living organism. This paper summarizes the improvements, new biology and new features available in version 6.0. Curation of original literature is, from now on, up to date for every new release. All the objects are supported by their corresponding evidences, now classified as strong or weak. Transcription factors are classified by origin of their effectors and by gene ontology class. We have now computational predictions for sigma(54) and five different promoter types of the sigma(70) family, as well as their corresponding -10 and -35 boxes. In addition to those curated from the literature, we added about 300 experimentally mapped promoters coming from our own high-throughput mapping efforts. RegulonDB v.6.0 now expands beyond transcription initiation, including RNA regulatory elements, specifically riboswitches, attenuators and small RNAs, with their known associated targets. The data can be accessed through overviews of correlations about gene regulation. RegulonDB associated original literature, together with more than 4000 curation notes, can now be searched with the Textpresso text mining engine.	2008 Jan	Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Jiménez-Jacinto, Verónica; Jiménez-Jacinto, V; Jiménez-Jacinto; Peralta-Gil, Martín; Peralta-Gil, M; Peralta-Gil; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Peñaloza-Spinola, Mónica I; Peñaloza-Spinola, MI; Peñaloza-Spinola; Contreras-Moreira, Bruno; Contreras-Moreira, B; Contreras-Moreira; Segura-Salazar, Juan; Segura-Salazar, J; Segura-Salazar; Muñiz-Rascado, Luis; Muñiz-Rascado, L; Muñiz-Rascado; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Bonavides-Martínez, César; Bonavides-Martínez, C; Bonavides-Martínez; Abreu-Goodger, Cei; Abreu-Goodger, C; Abreu-Goodger; Rodríguez-Penagos, Carlos; Rodríguez-Penagos, C; Rodríguez-Penagos; Miranda-Ríos, Juan; Miranda-Ríos, J; Miranda-Ríos; Morett, Enrique; Morett, E; Morett; Merino, Enrique; Merino, E; Merino; Huerta, Araceli M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Treviño-Quintanilla, Luis; Treviño-Quintanilla, L; Treviño-Quintanilla; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
19918115	Role of proteomics in the study of nutrition.	With the advent of nutrigenomics, a more mechanistic view of the variable host responses to nutrients is beginning to emerge. Proteomics is central to nutrigenomics since studies on the effect of nutrients on the proteome have the potential to explain, at the molecular level, many of the physiological changes associated with nutritional stimuli. Proteomics aims at the resolution, identification and quantitation of complex protein mixtures, discovery of interactions of proteins with other molecules, as well as their cellular localization and their role in metabolism. In this article, recent studies on proteomic effects of two vitamins, biotin and folic acid, will be considered as examples of this novel approach to nutriology.	2008	Velázquez-Arellano, Antonio; Velázquez-Arellano, A; Velázquez-Arellano; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación	J Nutrigenet Nutrigenomics
17940092	Multidimensional annotation of the Escherichia coli K-12 genome.	The annotation of the Escherichia coli K-12 genome in the EcoCyc database is one of the most accurate, complete and multidimensional genome annotations. Of the 4460 E. coli genes, EcoCyc assigns biochemical functions to 76%, and 66% of all genes had their functions determined experimentally. EcoCyc assigns E. coli genes to Gene Ontology and to MultiFun. Seventy-five percent of gene products contain reviews authored by the EcoCyc project that summarize the experimental literature about the gene product. EcoCyc information was derived from 15 000 publications. The database contains extensive descriptions of E. coli cellular networks, describing its metabolic, transport and transcriptional regulatory processes. A comparison to genome annotations for other model organisms shows that the E. coli genome contains the most experimentally determined gene functions in both relative and absolute terms: 2941 (66%) for E. coli, 2319 (37%) for Saccharomyces cerevisiae, 1816 (5%) for Arabidopsis thaliana, 1456 (4%) for Mus musculus and 614 (4%) for Drosophila melanogaster. Database queries to EcoCyc survey the global properties of E. coli cellular networks and illuminate the extent of information gaps for E. coli, such as dead-end metabolites. EcoCyc provides a genome browser with novel properties, and a novel interactive display of transcriptional regulatory networks.	2007	Karp, Peter D; Karp, PD; Karp; Keseler, Ingrid M; Keseler, IM; Keseler; Shearer, Alexander; Shearer, A; Shearer; Latendresse, Mario; Latendresse, M; Latendresse; Krummenacker, Markus; Krummenacker, M; Krummenacker; Paley, Suzanne M; Paley, SM; Paley; Paulsen, Ian; Paulsen, I; Paulsen; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Peralta-Gil, Martin; Peralta-Gil, M; Peralta-Gil; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Peñaloza-Spínola, Mónica I; Peñaloza-Spínola, MI; Peñaloza-Spínola; Bonavides-Martinez, César; Bonavides-Martinez, C; Bonavides-Martinez; Ingraham, John; Ingraham, J; Ingraham	Nucleic Acids Res
17996425	Structure and evolution of gene regulatory networks in microbial genomes.	With the availability of genome sequences for hundreds of microbial genomes, it has become possible to address several questions from a comparative perspective to understand the structure and function of regulatory systems, at least in model organisms. Recent studies have focused on topological properties and the evolution of regulatory networks and their components. Our understanding of natural networks is paving the way to embedding synthetic regulatory systems into organisms, allowing us to expand the natural diversity of living systems to an extent we had never before anticipated.	2007 Dec	Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Res Microbiol
17933780	Coordination logic of the sensing machinery in the transcriptional regulatory network of Escherichia coli.	The active and inactive state of transcription factors in growing cells is usually directed by allosteric physicochemical signals or metabolites, which are in turn either produced in the cell or obtained from the environment by the activity of the products of effector genes. To understand the regulatory dynamics and to improve our knowledge about how transcription factors (TFs) respond to endogenous and exogenous signals in the bacterial model, Escherichia coli, we previously proposed to classify TFs into external, internal and hybrid sensing classes depending on the source of their allosteric or equivalent metabolite. Here we analyze how a cell uses its topological structures in the context of sensing machinery and show that, while feed forward loops (FFLs) tightly integrate internal and external sensing TFs connecting TFs from different layers of the hierarchical transcriptional regulatory network (TRN), bifan motifs frequently connect TFs belonging to the same sensing class and could act as a bridge between TFs originating from the same level in the hierarchy. We observe that modules identified in the regulatory network of E. coli are heterogeneous in sensing context with a clear combination of internal and external sensing categories depending on the physiological role played by the module. We also note that propensity of two-component response regulators increases at promoters, as the number of TFs regulating a target operon increases. Finally we show that evolutionary families of TFs do not show a tendency to preserve their sensing abilities. Our results provide a detailed panorama of the topological structures of E. coli TRN and the way TFs they compose off, sense their surroundings by coordinating responses.	2007	Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Martínez-Antonio, Agustino; Martínez-Antonio, A; Martínez-Antonio; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
18176701	SHV-type extended-spectrum beta-lactamase (ESBL) are encoded in related plasmids from enterobacteria clinical isolates from Mexico.	In this work we report the molecular characterization of beta-lactam antibiotics resistance conferred by genes contained in plasmids from enterobacteria producing extended-spectrum beta-lactamases (ESBL).	2007 Nov-Dec	Garza-Ramos, Ulises; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Silva-Sánchez, Jesús; Silva-Sánchez, J; Silva-Sánchez	Salud Publica Mex
17977153	The lipid lysyl-phosphatidylglycerol is present in membranes of Rhizobium tropici CIAT899 and confers increased resistance to polymyxin B under acidic growth conditions.	Lysyl-phosphatidylglycerol (LPG) is a well-known membrane lipid in several gram-positive bacteria but is almost unheard of in gram-negative bacteria. In Staphylococcus aureus, the gene product of mprF is responsible for LPG formation. Low pH-inducible genes, termed IpiA, have been identified in the gram-negative alpha-proteobacteria Rhizobium tropici and Sinorhizobium medicae in screens for acid-sensitive mutants and they encode homologs of MprF. An analysis of the sequenced bacterial genomes reveals that genes coding for homologs of MprF from S. aureus are present in several classes of organisms throughout the bacterial kingdom. In this study, we show that the expression of lpiA from R. tropici in the heterologous hosts Escherichia coli and Sinorhizobium meliloti causes formation of LPG. A wild-type strain of R. tropici forms LPG (about 1% of the total lipids) when the cells are grown in minimal medium at pH 4.5 but not when grown in minimal medium at neutral pH or in complex tryptone yeast (TY) medium at either pH. LPG biosynthesis does not occur when lpiA is deleted and is restored upon complementation of lpiA-deficient mutants with a functional copy of the lpiA gene. When grown in the low-pH medium, lpiA-deficient rhizobial mutants are over four times more susceptible to the cationic peptide polymyxin B than the wild type.	2007 Nov	Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Galindo-Lagunas, Kanaan A; Galindo-Lagunas, KA; Galindo-Lagunas; Guan, Ziqiang; Guan, Z; Guan; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Robinson, Sally; Robinson, S; Robinson; Thomas-Oates, Jane; Thomas-Oates, J; Thomas-Oates; Raetz, Christian R H; Raetz, CR; Raetz; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
17922569	Metabolic reconstruction and modeling of nitrogen fixation in Rhizobium etli.	Rhizobiaceas are bacteria that fix nitrogen during symbiosis with plants. This symbiotic relationship is crucial for the nitrogen cycle, and understanding symbiotic mechanisms is a scientific challenge with direct applications in agronomy and plant development. Rhizobium etli is a bacteria which provides legumes with ammonia (among other chemical compounds), thereby stimulating plant growth. A genome-scale approach, integrating the biochemical information available for R. etli, constitutes an important step toward understanding the symbiotic relationship and its possible improvement. In this work we present a genome-scale metabolic reconstruction (iOR363) for R. etli CFN42, which includes 387 metabolic and transport reactions across 26 metabolic pathways. This model was used to analyze the physiological capabilities of R. etli during stages of nitrogen fixation. To study the physiological capacities in silico, an objective function was formulated to simulate symbiotic nitrogen fixation. Flux balance analysis (FBA) was performed, and the predicted active metabolic pathways agreed qualitatively with experimental observations. In addition, predictions for the effects of gene deletions during nitrogen fixation in Rhizobia in silico also agreed with reported experimental data. Overall, we present some evidence supporting that FBA of the reconstructed metabolic network for R. etli provides results that are in agreement with physiological observations. Thus, as for other organisms, the reconstructed genome-scale metabolic network provides an important framework which allows us to compare model predictions with experimental measurements and eventually generate hypotheses on ways to improve nitrogen fixation.	2007 Oct	Resendis-Antonio, Osbaldo; Resendis-Antonio, O; Resendis-Antonio; Reed, Jennifer L; Reed, JL; Reed; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Palsson, Bernhard Ø; Palsson, BØ; Palsson	PLoS Comput Biol
17918626	Novel reiterated Fnr-type proteins control the production of the symbiotic terminal oxidase cbb3 in Rhizobium etli CFN42.	Symbiotic nitrogen-fixing bacteria express a terminal oxidase with a high oxygen affinity, the cbb3-type oxidase encoded by the fixNOQP operon. Previously, we have shown that, in Rhizobium etli CFN42, the repeatedfixNOQP operons (fixNOQPd and fixNOQPf) have a differential role in nitrogen fixation. Only the fixNOQPd operon is required for the establishment of an effective symbiosis; microaerobic induction of this operon is under the control of at least three transcriptional regulators, FixKf, FnrNd, and FnrNchr, belonging to the Crp/Fnr family. In this work, we describe two novel Crp/Fnr-type transcriptional regulators (StoRd and StoRf, symbiotic terminal oxidase regulators) that play differential roles in the control of key genes for nitrogen fixation. Mutations either in stoRd or stoRf enhance the microaerobic expression of both fixNOQP reiterations, increasing also the synthesis of the cbb3-type oxidase in nodules. Despite their structural similarity, a differential role of these genes was also revealed, since a mutation in stoRd but not in stoRf enhanced both the expression of fixKf and the nitrogen-fixing capacity of R. etli CFN42.	2007 Oct	Granados-Baeza, Manuel J; Granados-Baeza, MJ; Granados-Baeza; Gómez-Hernández, Nicolás; Gómez-Hernández, N; Gómez-Hernández; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Delgado, María J; Delgado, MJ; Delgado; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
17601787	DNA diversification in two Sinorhizobium species.	The comparative analysis of genomic characteristics and single-nucleotide polymorphism patterns from large fragments borne on different replicons of Sinorhizobium spp. genomes clearly demonstrate that DNA recombination among closely related bacteria is a major event in the diversification of this genome, especially in pSymA, resulting in mosaic structure.	2007 Sep	Guo, Xianwu; Guo, X; Guo; Flores, Margarita; Flores, M; Flores; Morales, Lucía; Morales, L; Morales; García, Delfino; García, D; García; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Palacios, Rafael; Palacios, R; Palacios; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila	J Bacteriol
17683642	Automatic reconstruction of a bacterial regulatory network using Natural Language Processing.	Manual curation of biological databases, an expensive and labor-intensive process, is essential for high quality integrated data. In this paper we report the implementation of a state-of-the-art Natural Language Processing system that creates computer-readable networks of regulatory interactions directly from different collections of abstracts and full-text papers. Our major aim is to understand how automatic annotation using Text-Mining techniques can complement manual curation of biological databases. We implemented a rule-based system to generate networks from different sets of documents dealing with regulation in Escherichia coli K-12.	2007 Aug	Rodríguez-Penagos, Carlos; Rodríguez-Penagos, C; Rodríguez-Penagos; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	BMC Bioinformatics
17526694	Functional characterization of the Sinorhizobium meliloti acetate metabolism genes aceA, SMc00767, and glcB.	The genes encoding malate synthase (glcB) and isocitrate lyase (aceA) and a 240-bp open reading frame (SMc00767) located downstream of aceA were isolated and functionally characterized in Sinorhizobium meliloti. Independent and double interposon mutants of each gene were constructed, and the corresponding phenotypes were analyzed. aceA mutants failed to grow on acetate, and mutants deficient in SMc00767 were also affected in acetate utilization. In contrast, mutants deficient in glcB grew on acetate similar to wild-type strain Rm5000. Complementation experiments showed that aceA and SMc00767 gene constructs were able to restore the growth on acetate in the corresponding single mutants. aceA-glcB, aceA-SMc00767, and glcB-SMc00767 double knockouts were also unable to grow on acetate, but this ability was recovered when the wild-type aceA-glcB or aceA-SMc00767 loci were introduced into the double mutants. These data confirm the functional role of aceA and SMc00767 and show that glcB, in the absence of SMc00767, is required for acetate metabolism. Isocitrate lyase and malate synthase activities were measured in strain Rm5000, the mutant derivatives, and complemented strains. aceA and glcB were able to complement the enzymatic activity lacking in the corresponding single mutants. The enzymatic activities also showed that SMc00767 represses the activity of isocitrate lyase in cells grown on acetate. Gene fusions confirmed the repressor role of SMc00767, which regulates aceA expression at the transcriptional level. Comparison of the transcriptional profiles of the SMc00767 mutant and wild-type strain Rm5000 showed that SMc00767 represses the expression of a moderate number of open reading frames, including aceA; thus, we propose that SMc00767 is a novel repressor involved in acetate metabolism in S. meliloti. Genetic and functional analyses indicated that aceA and SMc00767 constitute a functional two-gene operon, which is conserved in other alpha-proteobacteria. Alfalfa plants infected with the aceA and glcB mutants were not impaired in nodulation or nitrogen fixation, and so the glyoxylate cycle is not required in the Rhizobium-legume symbiosis.	2007 Aug	Ramírez-Trujillo, J A; Ramírez-Trujillo, JA; Ramírez-Trujillo; Encarnación, S; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Salazar, E; Salazar, E; Salazar; de los Santos, A García; de los Santos, AG; de los Santos; Dunn, M F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Emerich, D W; Emerich, DW; Emerich; Calva, E; Calva, E; Calva; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas	J Bacteriol
17601817	The tomato rhizosphere, an environment rich in nitrogen-fixing Burkholderia species with capabilities of interest for agriculture and bioremediation.	Burkholderia strains are promising candidates for biotechnological applications. Unfortunately, most of these strains belong to species of the Burkholderia cepacia complex (Bcc) involved in human infections, hampering potential applications. Novel diazotrophic Burkholderia species, phylogenetically distant from the Bcc species, have been discovered recently, but their environmental distribution and relevant features for agro-biotechnological applications are little known. In this work, the occurrence of N2-fixing Burkholderia species in the rhizospheres and rhizoplanes of tomato plants field grown in Mexico was assessed. The results revealed a high level of diversity of diazotrophic Burkholderia species, including B. unamae, B. xenovorans, B. tropica, and two other unknown species, one of them phylogenetically closely related to B. kururiensis. These N2-fixing Burkholderia species exhibited activities involved in bioremediation, plant growth promotion, or biological control in vitro. Remarkably, B. unamae and B. kururiensis grew with aromatic compounds (phenol and benzene) as carbon sources, and the presence of aromatic oxygenase genes was confirmed in both species. The rhizospheric and endophyte nature of B. unamae and its ability to degrade aromatic compounds suggest that it could be used in rhizoremediation and for improvement of phytoremediation. B. kururiensis and other Burkholderia sp. strains grew with toluene. B. unamae and B. xenovorans exhibited ACC (1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid) deaminase activity, and the occurrence of acdS genes encoding ACC deaminase was confirmed. Mineral phosphate solubilization through organic acid production appears to be the mechanism used by most diazotrophic Burkholderia species, but in B. tropica, there presumably exists an additional unknown mechanism. Most of the diazotrophic Burkholderia species produced hydroxamate-type siderophores. Certainly, the N2-fixing Burkholderia species associated with plants have great potential for agro-biotechnological applications.	2007 Aug	Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Onofre-Lemus, Janette; Onofre-Lemus, J; Onofre-Lemus; Estrada-de Los Santos, Paulina; Estrada-de Los Santos, P; Estrada-de Los Santos; Martínez-Aguilar, Lourdes; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar	Appl Environ Microbiol
17693711	Tyrosinase from Rhizobium etli is involved in nodulation efficiency and symbiosis-associated stress resistance.	Tyrosinase (EC 1.14.18.1) is a monophenol oxidase responsible for the synthesis of the black pigment known as melanin. The tyrosinase gene (melA) is plasmid-encoded in many rhizobial species. In Rhizobium etli CFN42, the genetic location of melA in the symbiotic plasmid (p42d) and its RpoN-NifA regulation suggest an involvement in symbiosis. In this work, we analyzed the symbiotic phenotype of a streptomycin-resistant derivative of CFN42 (CE3), a melA mutant (SP2) and a complemented strain (SP66), demonstrating that melA inactivation reduced nodule formation rate and diminished total nodule number by 27% when compared to the CE3 strain. The nitrogen fixation capacity of the mutant strain was not affected. Also, in vitro assays were performed where the resistance of CE3, SP2 and SP66 strains to H(2)O(2) was evaluated; the melA mutant strain was consistently less resistant to peroxide. In another series of experiments, Escherichia coli W3110 strain expressing R. etli melA displayed enhanced resistance to p-hydroxybenzoic, vanillinic and syringic acids, which are phenolic compounds frequently found in the soil. Our results are the first to demonstrate a specific role for tyrosinase in R. etli: this enzyme is required during early symbiosis, apparently providing resistance against reactive oxygen species and phenolic compounds generated as part of the plant protective responses.	2007	Piñero, Silvia; Piñero, S; Piñero; Rivera, Javier; Rivera, J; Rivera; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Cevallos, Miguel Angel; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Martínez, Alfredo; Martínez, A; Martínez; Bolívar, Francisco; Bolívar, F; Bolívar; Gosset, Guillermo; Gosset, G; Gosset	J Mol Microbiol Biotechnol
17617412	Conservation of transcriptional sensing systems in prokaryotes: a perspective from Escherichia coli.	The activity of transcription factors is usually governed by allosteric physicochemical signals or metabolites, which are in turn produced in the cell or obtained from the environment by the activity of the products of effector genes. Previously, we identified a collection of more than 110 transcription factors and their corresponding effector genes in Escherichia coli K-12. Here, we introduce the notion of "triferog", which relates to the identification of orthologous transcription factors and effector genes across genomes and show that transcriptional sensing systems known in E. coli are poorly conserved beyond Salmonella. We also find that enzymes that act as effector genes for the production of endogenous effector metabolites are more conserved than their corresponding effector genes encoding for transport and two-component systems for sensing exogenous signals. Finally, we observe that on an evolutionary scale enzymes are more conserved than their respective TFs, suggesting a homogenous cellular metabolism across genomes and the conservation of transcriptional control of critical cellular processes like DNA replication by a common endogenous signal. We hypothesize that extensive variation in the domain architecture of TFs and changes in endogenous conditions at large phylogenetic distances could be the major contributing factors for the observed differential conservation of TFs and their corresponding effector genes encoding for enzymes, causing variations in transcriptional responses across organisms.	2007 Jul	Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Martínez-Antonio, Agustino; Martínez-Antonio, A; Martínez-Antonio; Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga	FEBS Lett
17559662	Identification of regulatory network topological units coordinating the genome-wide transcriptional response to glucose in Escherichia coli.	Glucose is the preferred carbon and energy source for Escherichia coli. A complex regulatory network coordinates gene expression, transport and enzyme activities in response to the presence of this sugar. To determine the extent of the cellular response to glucose, we applied an approach combining global transcriptome and regulatory network analyses.	2007 Jun	Gutierrez-Ríos, Rosa María; Gutierrez-Ríos, RM; Gutierrez-Ríos; Freyre-Gonzalez, Julio A; Freyre-Gonzalez, JA; Freyre-Gonzalez; Resendis, Osbaldo; Resendis, O; Resendis; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Saier, Milton; Saier, M; Saier; Gosset, Guillermo; Gosset, G; Gosset	BMC Microbiol
17623083	Rapid evolutionary change of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L) plastome, and the genomic diversification of legume chloroplasts.	Fabaceae (legumes) is one of the largest families of flowering plants, and some members are important crops. In contrast to what we know about their great diversity or economic importance, our knowledge at the genomic level of chloroplast genomes (cpDNAs or plastomes) for these crops is limited.	2007 Jul	Guo, Xianwu; Guo, X; Guo; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Fernández-Vázquez, José Luís; Fernández-Vázquez, JL; Fernández-Vázquez; Santamaría, Rosa Isela; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Arellano, Jesús; Arellano, J; Arellano; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila	BMC Genomics
17459960	TFmodeller: comparative modelling of protein-DNA complexes.	Interactions between proteins and DNA molecules lie at the core of the fundamental cellular processes such as transcriptional regulation. Some of these interactions have been experimentally described at atomic scale, but the molecular details of many others remain to be discovered. TFmodeller exploits the current knowledge about protein-DNA interfaces contained in the Protein Data Bank and uses it to model similar interfaces related by homology. Results are emailed to the user and include an evolutionary contact matrix, a schematic representation of the putative binding interface and atomic coordinates of the modelled complex. The library of complexes used by TFmodeller is updated on a weekly basis and is available for download.	2007 Jul	Contreras-Moreira, Bruno; Contreras-Moreira, B; Contreras-Moreira; Branger, Pierre-Alain; Branger, PA; Branger; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Bioinformatics
17597531	Definition of the zebrafish genome using flow cytometry and cytogenetic mapping.	The zebrafish (Danio rerio) is an important vertebrate model organism system for biomedical research. The syntenic conservation between the zebrafish and human genome allows one to investigate the function of human genes using the zebrafish model. To facilitate analysis of the zebrafish genome, genetic maps have been constructed and sequence annotation of a reference zebrafish genome is ongoing. However, the duplicative nature of teleost genomes, including the zebrafish, complicates accurate assembly and annotation of a representative genome sequence. Cytogenetic approaches provide "anchors" that can be integrated with accumulating genomic data.	2007 Jun	Freeman, Jennifer L; Freeman, JL; Freeman; Adeniyi, Adeola; Adeniyi, A; Adeniyi; Banerjee, Ruby; Banerjee, R; Banerjee; Dallaire, Stephanie; Dallaire, S; Dallaire; Maguire, Sean F; Maguire, SF; Maguire; Chi, Jianxiang; Chi, J; Chi; Ng, Bee Ling; Ng, BL; Ng; Zepeda, Cinthya; Zepeda, C; Zepeda; Scott, Carol E; Scott, CE; Scott; Humphray, Sean; Humphray, S; Humphray; Rogers, Jane; Rogers, J; Rogers; Zhou, Yi; Zhou, Y; Zhou; Zon, Leonard I; Zon, LI; Zon; Carter, Nigel P; Carter, NP; Carter; Yang, Fengtang; Yang, F; Yang; Lee, Charles; Lee, C; Lee	BMC Genomics
17293074	Ensifer mexicanus sp. nov. a new species nodulating Acacia angustissima (Mill.) Kuntze in Mexico.	A new lineage of Ensifer nodulating the American legume Acacia angustissima in the tropical forest of Chiapas and Morelos, Mexico is described. Bacteria were identified as Ensifer with ssb or nolR specific primers. Phylogenetic analysis with partial sequences of the five chromosomal genes gyrA, nolR, recA, rpoB and rrs revealed that this new lineage is related to African Ensifer terangae. The results of total DNA-DNA hybridization and selected phenotypic tests among the A. angustissima strains and E. terangae indicated that they belong to different species. The phylogeny with the symbiotic nifH gene also separates this group as a different clade but with close affinities to bacteria belonging to the genus Ensifer isolated from American hosts. ITTG R7(T) (=CFN ER1001, HAMBI 2910, CIP 109033, ATCC BAA-1312, DSM18446) is the type strain of a new species for which the name Ensifer mexicanus sp. nov. is proposed.	2007 Jun	Lloret, Lourdes; Lloret, L; Lloret; Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Rincón, Reiner; Rincón, R; Rincón; Martínez-Romero, Julio; Martínez-Romero, J; Martínez-Romero; Rogel-Hernández, Marco Antonio; Rogel-Hernández, MA; Rogel-Hernández; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
17449651	Phosphorus stress in common bean: root transcript and metabolic responses.	Phosphorus (P) is an essential element for plant growth. Crop production of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris), the most important legume for human consumption, is often limited by low P in the soil. Functional genomics were used to investigate global gene expression and metabolic responses of bean plants grown under P-deficient and P-sufficient conditions. P-deficient plants showed enhanced root to shoot ratio accompanied by reduced leaf area and net photosynthesis rates. Transcript profiling was performed through hybridization of nylon filter arrays spotted with cDNAs of 2,212 unigenes from a P deficiency root cDNA library. A total of 126 genes, representing different functional categories, showed significant differential expression in response to P: 62% of these were induced in P-deficient roots. A set of 372 bean transcription factor (TF) genes, coding for proteins with Inter-Pro domains characteristic or diagnostic for TF, were identified from The Institute of Genomic Research/Dana Farber Cancer Institute Common Bean Gene Index. Using real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis, 17 TF genes were differentially expressed in P-deficient roots; four TF genes, including MYB TFs, were induced. Nonbiased metabolite profiling was used to assess the degree to which changes in gene expression in P-deficient roots affect overall metabolism. Stress-related metabolites such as polyols accumulated in P-deficient roots as well as sugars, which are known to be essential for P stress gene induction. Candidate genes have been identified that may contribute to root adaptation to P deficiency and be useful for improvement of common bean.	2007 Jun	Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Ramírez, Mario; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Valdés-López, Oswaldo; Valdés-López, O; Valdés-López; Tesfaye, Mesfin; Tesfaye, M; Tesfaye; Graham, Michelle A; Graham, MA; Graham; Czechowski, Tomasz; Czechowski, T; Czechowski; Schlereth, Armin; Schlereth, A; Schlereth; Wandrey, Maren; Wandrey, M; Wandrey; Erban, Alexander; Erban, A; Erban; Cheung, Foo; Cheung, F; Cheung; Wu, Hank C; Wu, HC; Wu; Lara, Miguel; Lara, M; Lara; Town, Christopher D; Town, CD; Town; Kopka, Joachim; Kopka, J; Kopka; Udvardi, Michael K; Udvardi, MK; Udvardi; Vance, Carroll P; Vance, CP; Vance	Plant Physiol
17386032	Population genetic structure of Sinorhizobium meliloti and S. medicae isolated from nodules of Medicago spp. in Mexico.	We studied the genetic structure of 176 bacterial isolates from nodules of Medicago sativa, M. lupulina and M. polymorpha in fifteen sites distributed in three localities in Mexico. The strains were characterized by multilocus enzyme electrophoresis, plasmid profiles, PCR restriction fragment length polymorphism of 16S rRNA genes and of the intergenic spacer between 16S and 23S rRNA genes, and partial sequences of glnII, recA and nodB. Most of the strains were classified as Sinorhizobium meliloti, and a high genetic diversity was recorded. Six strains were classified as Sinorhizobium medicae, with no genetic variation. Phylogenetic and population genetic analyses revealed evidence of frequent recombination and migration within species.	2007 Jun	Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva; Kan, Feng Ling; Kan, FL; Kan; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	FEMS Microbiol Ecol
17136545	Regeneration of roots from callus reveals stability of the developmental program for determinate root growth in Sonoran Desert Cactaceae.	In some Sonoran Desert Cactaceae the primary root has a determinate root growth: the cells of the root apical meristem undergo only a few cell division cycles and then differentiate. The determinate growth of primary roots in Cactaceae was found in plants cultivated under various growth conditions, and could not be reverted by any treatment tested. The mechanisms involved in root meristem maintenance and determinate root growth in plants remain poorly understood. In this study, we have shown that roots regenerated from the callus of two Cactaceae species, Stenocereus gummosus and Ferocactus peninsulae, have a determinate growth pattern, similar to that of the primary root. To demonstrate this, a protocol for root regeneration from callus was established. The determinate growth pattern of roots regenerated from callus suggests that the program of root development is very stable in these species. These findings will permit future analysis of the role of certain Cactaceae genes in the determinate pattern of root growth via the regeneration of transgenic roots from transformed calli.	2007 May	Shishkova, Svetlana; Shishkova, S; Shishkova; García-Mendoza, Edith; García-Mendoza, E; García-Mendoza; Castillo-Díaz, Vicente; Castillo-Díaz, V; Castillo-Díaz; Moreno, Norma E; Moreno, NE; Moreno; Arellano, Jesús; Arellano, J; Arellano; Dubrovsky, Joseph G; Dubrovsky, JG; Dubrovsky	Plant Cell Rep
17472633	Selection of nitrogen-fixing deficient Burkholderia vietnamiensis strains by cystic fibrosis patients: involvement of nif gene deletions and auxotrophic mutations.	Burkholderia vietnamiensis is the third most prevalent species of the Burkholderia cepacia complex (Bcc) found in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. Its ability at fixing nitrogen makes it one of the main Bcc species showing strong filiations with environmental reservoirs. In this study, 83% (29 over 35) of the B. vietnamiensis CF isolates and 100% of the environmental ones (over 29) were found expressing the dinitrogenase complex (encoded by the nif cluster) which is essential in N(2) fixation. Among the deficient strains, two were found growing with ammonium chloride suggesting that they were defective in N(2) fixation, and four with amino acids supplements suggesting that they were harbouring auxotrophic mutations. To get insights about the genetic events that led to the emergence of the N(2)-fixing defective strains, a genetic analysis of B. vietnamiensis nitrogen-fixing property was undertaken. A 40-kb-long nif cluster and nif regulatory genes were identified within the B. vietnamiensis strain G4 genome sequence, and analysed. Transposon mutagenesis and nifH genetic marker exchanges showed the nif cluster and several other genes like gltB (encoding a subunit of the glutamate synthase) to play a key role in B. vietnamiensis ability at growing in nitrogen-free media. nif cluster DNA probings of restricted genomic DNA blots showed a full deletion of the nif cluster for one of the N(2)-fixing defective strain while the other one showed a genetic organization similar to the one of the G4 strain. For 17% of B. vietnamiensis clinical strains, CF lungs appeared to have favoured the selection of mutations or deletions leading to N(2)-fixing deficiencies.	2007 May	Menard, Aymeric; Menard, A; Menard; Monnez, Claire; Monnez, C; Monnez; Estrada de Los Santos, Paulina; Estrada de Los Santos, P; Estrada de Los Santos; Segonds, Christine; Segonds, C; Segonds; Caballero-Mellado, Jesus; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Lipuma, John J; Lipuma, JJ; Lipuma; Chabanon, Gerard; Chabanon, G; Chabanon; Cournoyer, Benoit; Cournoyer, B; Cournoyer	Environ Microbiol
17321548	Internal versus external effector and transcription factor gene pairs differ in their relative chromosomal position in Escherichia coli.	Transcription factors (TFs) play an important role in the genetic regulation of transcription in response to internal and external cellular stimuli. However, little is known about their functional and dynamic aspects on a large scale, even in a well-studied bacterium like Escherichia coli. To understand the regulatory dynamics and to improve our knowledge about how TFs respond to endogenous and exogenous signals in this simple bacterium model, we previously proposed that TFs can be classified into three classes, depending on how they sense their allosteric or equivalent metabolite: external class, internal class, and hybrid sensing class. Classification of these groups was done without considering the relative chromosomal positions of the TFs and their corresponding effector genes. Here, we analyze the genome organization of the genetic components of these sensing systems, using the classification described earlier. We report the chromosomal proximity of transcription factors and their effector genes to sense periplasmic signals or transported metabolites (i.e. transcriptional sensing systems from the external class) in contrast to the components for sensing internally synthesized metabolites, which tend to be distant on the chromosome. We strengthen our finding that external sensing genetic machinery behaves like chromosomal modules of regulation to respond rapidly to variations in external conditions through co-expression of their genetic components, which is corroborated with microarray data for E. coli. Furthermore, we show several lines of evidence supporting the need for the coordinated activity of external sensing systems in contrast to that of internal sensing machinery, which can explain their close chromosomal organization. The observed functional correlation between the chromosomal organization and the genetic machinery for environmental sensing should contribute to our understanding of the logical functioning and evolution of the transcriptional regulatory networks in bacteria.	2007 Apr	Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Martínez-Antonio, Agustino; Martínez-Antonio, A; Martínez-Antonio	J Mol Biol
17389356	Recurrent DNA inversion rearrangements in the human genome.	Several lines of evidence suggest that reiterated sequences in the human genome are targets for nonallelic homologous recombination (NAHR), which facilitates genomic rearrangements. We have used a PCR-based approach to identify breakpoint regions of rearranged structures in the human genome. In particular, we have identified intrachromosomal identical repeats that are located in reverse orientation, which may lead to chromosomal inversions. A bioinformatic workflow pathway to select appropriate regions for analysis was developed. Three such regions overlapping with known human genes, located on chromosomes 3, 15, and 19, were analyzed. The relative proportion of wild-type to rearranged structures was determined in DNA samples from blood obtained from different, unrelated individuals. The results obtained indicate that recurrent genomic rearrangements occur at relatively high frequency in somatic cells. Interestingly, the rearrangements studied were significantly more abundant in adults than in newborn individuals, suggesting that such DNA rearrangements might start to appear during embryogenesis or fetal life and continue to accumulate after birth. The relevance of our results in regard to human genomic variation is discussed.	2007 Apr	Flores, Margarita; Flores, M; Flores; Morales, Lucía; Morales, L; Morales; Gonzaga-Jauregui, Claudia; Gonzaga-Jauregui, C; Gonzaga-Jauregui; Domínguez-Vidaña, Rocío; Domínguez-Vidaña, R; Domínguez-Vidaña; Zepeda, Cinthya; Zepeda, C; Zepeda; Yañez, Omar; Yañez, O; Yañez; Gutiérrez, María; Gutiérrez, M; Gutiérrez; Lemus, Tzitziki; Lemus, T; Lemus; Valle, David; Valle, D; Valle; Avila, Ma Carmen; Avila, MC; Avila; Blanco, Daniel; Blanco, D; Blanco; Medina-Ruiz, Sofía; Medina-Ruiz, S; Medina-Ruiz; Meza, Karla; Meza, K; Meza; Ayala, Erandi; Ayala, E; Ayala; García, Delfino; García, D; García; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Tusie-Luna, Teresa; Tusie-Luna, T; Tusie-Luna; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; Palacios, Rafael; Palacios, R; Palacios	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
17188715	Robustness and evolvability in genetic regulatory networks.	Living organisms are robust to a great variety of genetic changes. Gene regulation networks and metabolic pathways self-organize and reaccommodate to make the organism perform with stability and reliability under many point mutations, gene duplications and gene deletions. At the same time, living organisms are evolvable, which means that these kind of genetic perturbations can eventually make the organism acquire new functions and adapt to new environments. It is still an open problem to determine how robustness and evolvability blend together at the genetic level to produce stable organisms that yet can change and evolve. Here we address this problem by studying the robustness and evolvability of the attractor landscape of genetic regulatory network models under the process of gene duplication followed by divergence. We show that an intrinsic property of this kind of networks is that, after the divergence of the parent and duplicate genes, with a high probability the previous phenotypes, encoded in the attractor landscape of the network, are preserved and new ones might appear. The above is true in a variety of network topologies and even for the case of extreme divergence in which the duplicate gene bears almost no relation with its parent. Our results indicate that networks operating close to the so-called "critical regime" exhibit the maximum robustness and evolvability simultaneously.	2007 Apr	Aldana, Maximino; Aldana, M; Aldana; Balleza, Enrique; Balleza, E; Balleza; Kauffman, Stuart; Kauffman, S; Kauffman; Resendiz, Osbaldo; Resendiz, O; Resendiz	J Theor Biol
17293429	A complete set of flagellar genes acquired by horizontal transfer coexists with the endogenous flagellar system in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Bacteria swim in liquid environments by means of a complex rotating structure known as the flagellum. Approximately 40 proteins are required for the assembly and functionality of this structure. Rhodobacter sphaeroides has two flagellar systems. One of these systems has been shown to be functional and is required for the synthesis of the well-characterized single subpolar flagellum, while the other was found only after the genome sequence of this bacterium was completed. In this work we found that the second flagellar system of R. sphaeroides can be expressed and produces a functional flagellum. In many bacteria with two flagellar systems, one is required for swimming, while the other allows movement in denser environments by producing a large number of flagella over the entire cell surface. In contrast, the second flagellar system of R. sphaeroides produces polar flagella that are required for swimming. Expression of the second set of flagellar genes seems to be positively regulated under anaerobic growth conditions. Phylogenic analysis suggests that the flagellar system that was initially characterized was in fact acquired by horizontal transfer from a gamma-proteobacterium, while the second flagellar system contains the native genes. Interestingly, other alpha-proteobacteria closely related to R. sphaeroides have also acquired a set of flagellar genes similar to the set found in R. sphaeroides, suggesting that a common ancestor received this gene cluster.	2007 Apr	Poggio, Sebastian; Poggio, S; Poggio; Abreu-Goodger, Cei; Abreu-Goodger, C; Abreu-Goodger; Fabela, Salvador; Fabela, S; Fabela; Osorio, Aurora; Osorio, A; Osorio; Dreyfus, Georges; Dreyfus, G; Dreyfus; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Camarena, Laura; Camarena, L; Camarena	J Bacteriol
17233732	Inactivation of the nodH gene in Sinorhizobium sp. BR816 enhances symbiosis with Phaseolus vulgaris L.	Sulfate modification on Rhizobium Nod factor signaling molecules is not a prerequisite for successful symbiosis with the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.). However, many bean-nodulating rhizobia, including the broad host strain Sinorhizobium sp. BR816, produce sulfated Nod factors. Here, we show that the nodH gene, encoding a sulfotransferase, is responsible for the transfer of sulfate to the Nod factor backbone in Sinorhizobium sp. BR816, as was shown for other rhizobia. Interestingly, inactivation of nodH enables inoculated bean plants to fix significantly more nitrogen under different experimental setups. Our studies show that nodH in the wild-type strain is still expressed during the later stages of symbiosis. This is the first report on enhanced nitrogen fixation by blocking Nod factor sulfation.	2007 Jan	Remans, Roseline; Remans, R; Remans; Snoeck, Carla; Snoeck, C; Snoeck; Verreth, Christel; Verreth, C; Verreth; Croonenborghs, Anja; Croonenborghs, A; Croonenborghs; Luyten, Ellen; Luyten, E; Luyten; Ndayizeye, Maxime; Ndayizeye, M; Ndayizeye; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Michiels, Jan; Michiels, J; Michiels; Vanderleyden, Jos; Vanderleyden, J; Vanderleyden	FEMS Microbiol Lett
17088283	Tractor_DB (version 2.0): a database of regulatory interactions in gamma-proteobacterial genomes.	The version 2.0 of Tractor_DB is now accessible at its three international mirrors: www.bioinfo.cu/Tractor_DB, www.tractor.lncc.br and http://www.ccg.unam.mx/tractorDB. This database contains a collection of computationally predicted Transcription Factors' binding sites in gamma-proteobacterial genomes. These data should aid researchers in the design of microarray experiments and the interpretation of their results. They should also facilitate studies of Comparative Genomics of the regulatory networks of this group of organisms. In this paper we describe the main improvements incorporated to the database in the past year and a half which include incorporating information on the regulatory networks of 13-increasing to 30-new gamma-proteobacteria and developing a new computational strategy to complement the putative sites identified by the original weight matrix-based approach. We have also added dynamically generated navigation tabs to the navigation interfaces. Moreover, we developed a new interface that allows users to directly retrieve information on the conservation of regulatory interactions in the 30 genomes included in the database by navigating a map that represents a core of the known Escherichia coli regulatory network.	2007 Jan	Pérez, Abel González; Pérez, AG; Pérez; Angarica, Vladimir Espinosa; Angarica, VE; Angarica; Vasconcelos, Ana Tereza R; Vasconcelos, AT; Vasconcelos; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
16840530	Bacterial regulatory networks are extremely flexible in evolution.	Over millions of years the structure and complexity of the transcriptional regulatory network (TRN) in bacteria has changed, reorganized and enabled them to adapt to almost every environmental niche on earth. In order to understand the plasticity of TRNs in bacteria, we studied the conservation of currently known TRNs of the two model organisms Escherichia coli K12 and Bacillus subtilis across complete genomes including Bacteria, Archaea and Eukarya at three different levels: individual components of the TRN, pairs of interactions and regulons. We found that transcription factors (TFs) evolve much faster than the target genes (TGs) across phyla. We show that global regulators are poorly conserved across the phylogenetic spectrum and hence TFs could be the major players responsible for the plasticity and evolvability of the TRNs. We also found that there is only a small fraction of significantly conserved transcriptional regulatory interactions among different phyla of bacteria and that there is no constraint on the elements of the interaction to co-evolve. Finally our results suggest that majority of the regulons in bacteria are rapidly lost implying a high-order flexibility in the TRNs. We hypothesize that during the divergence of bacteria certain essential cellular processes like the synthesis of arginine, biotine and ribose, transport of amino acids and iron, availability of phosphate, replication process and the SOS response are well conserved in evolution. From our comparative analysis, it is possible to infer that transcriptional regulation is more flexible than the genetic component of the organisms and its complexity and structure plays an important role in the phenotypic adaptation.	2006	Lozada-Chávez, Irma; Lozada-Chávez, I; Lozada-Chávez; Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
17096598	Selection for unequal densities of sigma70 promoter-like signals in different regions of large bacterial genomes.	The evolutionary processes operating in the DNA regions that participate in the regulation of gene expression are poorly understood. In Escherichia coli, we have established a sequence pattern that distinguishes regulatory from nonregulatory regions. The density of promoter-like sequences, that could be recognizable by RNA polymerase and may function as potential promoters, is high within regulatory regions, in contrast to coding regions and regions located between convergently transcribed genes. Moreover, functional promoter sites identified experimentally are often found in the subregions of highest density of promoter-like signals, even when individual sites with higher binding affinity for RNA polymerase exist elsewhere within the regulatory region. In order to see the generality of this pattern, we have analyzed 43 additional genomes belonging to most established bacterial phyla. Differential densities between regulatory and nonregulatory regions are detectable in most of the analyzed genomes, with the exception of those that have evolved toward extreme genome reduction. Thus, presence of this pattern follows that of genes and other genomic features that require weak selection to be effective in order to persist. On this basis, we suggest that the loss of differential densities in the reduced genomes of host-restricted pathogens and symbionts is an outcome of the process of genome degradation resulting from the decreased efficiency of purifying selection in highly structured small populations. This implies that the differential distribution of promoter-like signals between regulatory and nonregulatory regions detected in large bacterial genomes confers a significant, although small, fitness advantage. This study paves the way for further identification of the specific types of selective constraints that affect the organization of regulatory regions and the overall distribution of promoter-like signals through more detailed comparative analyses among closely related bacterial genomes.	2006 Nov	Huerta, Araceli M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Francino, M Pilar; Francino, MP; Francino; Morett, Enrique; Morett, E; Morett; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	PLoS Genet
16847602	Monorhamnolipids and 3-(3-hydroxyalkanoyloxy)alkanoic acids (HAAs) production using Escherichia coli as a heterologous host.	Pseudomonas aeruginosa produces the biosurfactants rhamnolipids and 3-(3-hydroxyalkanoyloxy)alkanoic acids (HAAs). In this study, we report the production of one family of rhamnolipids, specifically the monorhamnolipids, and of HAAs in a recombinant Escherichia coli strain expressing P. aeruginosa rhlAB operon. We found that the availability in E. coli of dTDP-L: -rhamnose, a substrate of RhlB, restricts the production of monorhamnolipids in E. coli. We present evidence showing that HAAs and the fatty acid dimer moiety of rhamnolipids are the product of RhlA enzymatic activity. Furthermore, we found that in the recombinant E. coli, these compounds have the same chain length of the fatty acid dimer moiety as those produced by P. aeruginosa. These data suggest that it is RhlAB specificity, and not the hydroxyfatty acid relative abundance in the bacterium, that determines the profile of the fatty acid moiety of rhamnolipids and HAAs. The rhamnolipids level produced in recombinant E. coli expressing rhlAB is lower than the P. aeruginosa level and much higher than those reported by others in E. coli, showing that this metabolic engineering strategy lead to an increased rhamnolipids production in this heterologous host.	2006 Nov	Cabrera-Valladares, Natividad; Cabrera-Valladares, N; Cabrera-Valladares; Richardson, Anne-Pascale; Richardson, AP; Richardson; Olvera, Clarita; Olvera, C; Olvera; Treviño, Luis Gerardo; Treviño, LG; Treviño; Déziel, Eric; Déziel, E; Déziel; Lépine, François; Lépine, F; Lépine; Soberón-Chávez, Gloria; Soberón-Chávez, G; Soberón-Chávez	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol
16862424	Diverse endophytic bacteria isolated from a leguminous tree Conzattia multiflora grown in Mexico.	Conzattia multiflora is a leguminous tree present only in Mexico and Guatemala. There is no record about its symbiotic or pathogenic microbes. In this study, we found that numerous bacteria with 10(4)-10(6) individuals per gram of fresh epidermis were distributed in the tissue of this plant. All the bacteria isolated from the Conzattia epidermis were Gram-negative, facultative anaerobic rods and formed yellow or colorless colonies. They were identified as endophytes by inoculation tests. Some of the bacteria could significantly promote the growth of Conzattia seedlings. Nine different groups were defined by PCR-based RFLP, which were classified as Pantoea, Erwinia, Salmonella, Enterobacter, Citrobacter and Klebsiella by the phylogenetic analysis of 16S rRNA genes. The existence of plant-borne lineages of Salmonella indicates that the unexplored plants may harbor some unknown microbes.	2006 Oct	Wang, En Tao; Wang, ET; Wang; Tan, Zhi Yuan; Tan, ZY; Tan; Guo, Xian Wu; Guo, XW; Guo; Rodríguez-Duran, Rolando; Rodríguez-Duran, R; Rodríguez-Duran; Boll, Gisela; Boll, G; Boll; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Arch Microbiol
17005985	The Sinorhizobium medicae WSM419 lpiA gene is transcriptionally activated by FsrR and required to enhance survival in lethal acid conditions.	Sinorhizobium medicae WR101 was identified as a mutant of WSM419 that contained a minitransposon-induced transcriptional gusA fusion activated at least 20-fold at pH 5.7. The expression of this fusion in moderately acid conditions was dependent on the calcium concentration; increasing the calcium concentration to enhance cell growth and survival in acid conditions decreased the expression of the fusion. A gene region containing the gusA fusion was sequenced, revealing five S. medicae genes: tcsA, tcrA, fsrR, lpiA and acvB. The gusA reporter in WR101 was fused to lpiA, which encodes a putative transmembrane protein also found in other Alphaproteobacteria such as Sinorhizobium meliloti, Rhizobium tropici and Agrobacterium tumefaciens. As LpiA has partial sequence similarity to the lysyl-phosphatidylglycerol (LPG) synthetase FmtC/MprF from Staphylococcus aureus, membrane lipid compositions of S. medicae strains were analysed. Cells cultured under neutral or acidic growth conditions did not induce any detectable LPG and therefore this lipid cannot be a major constituent of S. medicae membranes. Expression studies in S. medicae localized the acid-activated lpiA promoter within a 372 bp region upstream of the start codon. The acid-activated transcription of lpiA required the fused sensor-regulator product of the fsrR gene, because expression of lpiA was severely reduced in an S. medicae fsrR mutant. S. meliloti strain 1021 does not contain fsrR and acid-activated expression of the lpiA-gusA fusion did not occur in this species. Although acid-activated lpiA transcription was not required for cell growth, its expression was crucial in enhancing the viability of cells subsequently exposed to lethal acid (pH 4.5) conditions.	2006 Oct	Reeve, Wayne G; Reeve, WG; Reeve; Bräu, Lambert; Bräu, L; Bräu; Castelli, Joanne; Castelli, J; Castelli; Garau, Giovanni; Garau, G; Garau; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Dilworth, Michael J; Dilworth, MJ; Dilworth; Glenn, Andrew R; Glenn, AR; Glenn; Howieson, John G; Howieson, JG; Howieson; Tiwari, Ravi P; Tiwari, RP; Tiwari	Microbiology (Reading)
16872758	Growth hormone locus expands and diverges after the separation of New and Old World Monkeys.	While most mammals including the prosimians have a single copy of the growth hormone (GH) gene, anthropoids possess a cluster of GH-related genes. Throughout the evolution of the main anthropoid groups [New World Monkeys (NWM), Old World Monkeys (OWM), and apes], two features stand out of the GH loci. The first is the appearance of chorionic somatommamotropin hormone (CSH) genes within the OWM lineage and the second is the expansion of the loci intergenic regions in the OWM and apes. In relation with this loci expansion, the NWM possess intergenic regions of homogeneous lengths (3.5 kb). In contrast, heterogeneous lengths (6 and 13 kb) have been reported for species of the OWM. At the present, none of the OWM genomic GH loci organizations have been described. Here, we report the genomic organization of the GH locus in the rhesus monkey, this locus has six GH-related genes separated by five intergenic regions. The 5' end gene (GH-1) encodes for the pituitary GH and is followed by CSH-1, GH-2, CSH-2, CSH-3 and CSH-4 genes. The five intergenic regions have heterogeneous lengths and also present more or less the same Alu distribution as the human GH locus. To analyze the events that contributed to the extension of the intergenic regions of the GH locus and the emergence of the regulatory elements, the five GH locus intergenic regions of the spider monkey (NWM) were sequenced. The results of comparing the loci from both species suggest that the long intergenic regions (13 kb) of the rhesus GH locus share a common ancestor with the 3.5 kb intergenic regions of the spider monkey. However, the observed increased length of the former is due to an insertion (approximately 8.7 kb) at their 3' end. Interestingly in this insert, we discovered a DNA element resembling the enhancer of the CSH genes of the human GH locus. On the other hand, we observed that the short intergenic regions (6 kb) increased by a different recombination event.	2006 Sep	González Alvarez, Rafael; González Alvarez, R; González Alvarez; Revol de Mendoza, Agnès; Revol de Mendoza, A; Revol de Mendoza; Esquivel Escobedo, Dolores; Esquivel Escobedo, D; Esquivel Escobedo; Corrales Félix, Gloria; Corrales Félix, G; Corrales Félix; Rodríguez Sánchez, Irám; Rodríguez Sánchez, I; Rodríguez Sánchez; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; Cao, Qing; Cao, Q; Cao; de Jong, Pieter; de Jong, P; de Jong; Fu, Yun-Xin; Fu, YX; Fu; Barrera Saldaña, Hugo A; Barrera Saldaña, HA; Barrera Saldaña	Gene
16903349	Bacterial endophytes and their interactions with hosts.	Recent molecular studies on endophytic bacterial diversity have revealed a large richness of species. Endophytes promote plant growth and yield, suppress pathogens, may help to remove contaminants, solubilize phosphate, or contribute assimilable nitrogen to plants. Some endophytes are seedborne, but others have mechanisms to colonize the plants that are being studied. Bacterial mutants unable to produce secreted proteins are impaired in the colonization process. Plant genes expressed in the presence of endophytes provide clues as to the effects of endophytes in plants. Molecular analysis showed that plant defense responses limit bacterial populations inside plants. Some human pathogens, such as Salmonella spp., have been found as endophytes, and these bacteria are not removed by disinfection procedures that eliminate superficially occurring bacteria. Delivery of endophytes to the environment or agricultural fields should be carefully evaluated to avoid introducing pathogens.	2006 Aug	Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
16902033	Burkholderia silvatlantica sp. nov., a diazotrophic bacterium associated with sugar cane and maize.	In a previous study, nitrogen-fixing isolates were recovered from the rhizosphere of maize and from surface-sterilized leaves of sugar cane cultivated in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. On the basis of 16S rRNA gene sequence similarities, these isolates were identified as belonging to the genus Burkholderia, and whole-cell-protein profiles demonstrated that they are closely related to each other. In the present study, novel isolates were recovered from the roots of different sugar-cane varieties cultivated in diverse geographical regions of Brazil. Twenty-one nitrogen-fixing isolates were analysed using polyphasic taxonomy criteria, including DNA-DNA relatedness, 16S rRNA gene sequence similarities, fatty acid profiles, whole-cell-protein patterns and multilocus enzyme electrophoresis profiles, as well as morphological, physiological and biochemical characterization. The analysis confirmed that these isolates belong to a novel species within the genus Burkholderia, for which the name Burkholderia silvatlantica sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain, SRMrh-20(T) (=LMG 23149(T)=ATCC BAA-1244(T)), was isolated from the rhizosphere of maize var. Avantis A2345 cultivated in Seropédica, Rio de Janeiro.	2006 Aug	Perin, L; Perin, L; Perin; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar; Paredes-Valdez, G; Paredes-Valdez, G; Paredes-Valdez; Baldani, J I; Baldani, JI; Baldani; Estrada-de Los Santos, P; Estrada-de Los Santos, P; Estrada-de Los Santos; Reis, V M; Reis, VM; Reis; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
16842354	Isolation and characterization of functional insertion sequences of rhizobia.	Rhizobia are a group of bacteria that form nodules on the roots of legume host plants. The sequenced genomes of the rhizobia are characterized by the presence of many putative insertion sequences (IS) elements. However, it is unknown whether these IS elements are functional and it is therefore relevant to assess their transposition activity. In this work, several functional insertion sequences belonging to the IS1256, IS3, IS5, IS166, and IS21 families were captured from Rhizobium tropici, Rhizobium sp. NGR234 and Sinorhizobium meliloti, using pGBG1 as a trapping system. In silico analysis shows that homologs of rhizobia mobile elements are present in distantly related genomes, suggesting that Rhizobium IS elements are prone to genetic transfer.	2006 Aug	Hernandez-Lucas, Ismael; Hernandez-Lucas, I; Hernandez-Lucas; Ramirez-Trujillo, Jose Augusto; Ramirez-Trujillo, JA; Ramirez-Trujillo; Gaitan, Miguel Angel; Gaitan, MA; Gaitan; Guo, Xianwu; Guo, X; Guo; Flores, Margarita; Flores, M; Flores; Martinez-Romero, Esperanza; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Perez-Rueda, Ernesto; Perez-Rueda, E; Perez-Rueda; Mavingui, Patrick; Mavingui, P; Mavingui	FEMS Microbiol Lett
16873524	Comparative footprinting of DNA-binding proteins.	Comparative modelling is a computational method used to tackle a variety of problems in molecular biology and biotechnology. Traditionally it has been applied to model the structure of proteins on their own or bound to small ligands, although more recently it has also been used to model protein-protein interfaces. This work is the first to systematically analyze whether comparative models of protein-DNA complexes could be built and be useful for predicting DNA binding sites.	2006 Jul	Contreras-Moreira, Bruno; Contreras-Moreira, B; Contreras-Moreira; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Bioinformatics
16772031	Identification and analysis of DNA-binding transcription factors in Bacillus subtilis and other Firmicutes--a genomic approach.	Bacillus subtilis is one of the best-characterized organisms in Gram-positive bacteria. It represents a paradigm of gene regulation in bacteria due its complex life style (which could involve a transition between stages as diverse as vegetative cell and spore formation). In order to gain insight into the organization and evolution of the B. subtilis regulatory network and to provide an alternative framework for further studies in bacteria, we identified and analyzed its repertoire of DNA-binding transcription factors in terms of their abundance, family distribution and regulated genes.	2006 Jun	Moreno-Campuzano, Samadhi; Moreno-Campuzano, S; Moreno-Campuzano; Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga; Pérez-Rueda, Ernesto; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda	BMC Genomics
16442259	Molecular phylogeny based on the 16S rRNA gene of elite rhizobial strains used in Brazilian commercial inoculants.	Nitrogen is often a limiting nutrient, therefore the sustainability of food crops, forages and green manure legumes is mainly associated with their ability to establish symbiotic associations with stem and root-nodulating N2-fixing rhizobia. The selection, identification and maintenance of elite strains for each host are critical. Decades of research in Brazil resulted in a list of strains officially recommended for several legumes, but their genetic diversity is poorly known. This study aimed at gaining a better understanding of phylogenetic relationships of 68 rhizobial strains recommended for 64 legumes, based on the sequencing of the 16S rRNA genes. The strains were isolated from a wide range of legumes, including all three subfamilies and 17 tribes. Nine main phylogenetic branches were defined, seven of them related to the rhizobial species: Bradyrhizobium japonicum, B. elkanii, Rhizobium tropici, R. leguminosarum, Sinorhizobium meliloti/S. fredii, Mesorhizobium ciceri/M. loti, and Azorhizobium caulinodans. However, some strains differed by up to 35 nucleotides from the type strains, which suggests that they may represent new species. Two other clusters included bacteria showing similarity with the genera Methylobacterium and Burkholderia, and amplification with primers for nifH and/or nodC regions was achieved with these strains. Host specificity of several strains was very low, as they were capable of nodulating legumes of different tribes and subfamilies. Furthermore, host specificity was not related to 16S rRNA, therefore evolution of ribosomal and symbiotic genes may have been diverse. Finally, the great diversity observed in this study emphasizes that tropics are an important reservoir of N2-fixation genes.	2006 Jun	Menna, Pâmela; Menna, P; Menna; Hungria, Mariangela; Hungria, M; Hungria; Barcellos, Fernando G; Barcellos, FG; Barcellos; Bangel, Eliane V; Bangel, EV; Bangel; Hess, Pablo N; Hess, PN; Hess; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
16690627	Metabolic engineering of rice with soybean isoflavone synthase for promoting nodulation gene expression in rhizobia.	Isoflavonoids are derived from a flavonone intermediate, naringenin, that is ubiquitously present in plants, and play a critical role in plant development and defence response. Isoflavonoids secreted by the legumes also play an important role in promoting the formation of nitrogen-fixing nodules by symbiotic rhizobia. In these plants, the key enzyme that redirects phenylpropanoid pathway intermediates from flavonoids to isoflavonoids is the cytochrome P450 mono-oxygenase, isoflavone synthase. In an effort to develop a rice variety possessing the ability to induce nodulation (nod) genes in rhizobia, the IFS gene from soybean was incorporated into rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Murasaki R86) under the control of the 35S promoter. The presence of IFS in transgenic rice was confirmed by PCR and Southern blot analysis. Analyses of the 35S-IFS transgenic lines demonstrated that the expression of the IFS gene led to the production of the isoflavone genistein in rice tissues. These results showed that the soybean IFS gene-expressed enzyme is active in the R86 rice plant, and that the naringenin intermediate of the anthocyanin pathway is available as a substrate for the introduced foreign enzyme. The genistein produced in rice cells was present in a glycoside form, indicating that endogenous glycosyltransferases were capable of recognizing genistein as a substrate. Studies with rhizobia demonstrated that the expression of isoflavone synthase confers rice plants with the ability to produce flavonoids that are able to induce nod gene expression, albeit to varied degrees, in different rhizobia.	2006	Sreevidya, V S; Sreevidya, VS; Sreevidya; Srinivasa Rao, C; Srinivasa Rao, C; Srinivasa Rao; Sullia, S B; Sullia, SB; Sullia; Ladha, Jagdish K; Ladha, JK; Ladha; Reddy, Pallavolu M; Reddy, PM; Reddy	J Exp Bot
16705749	Proteomic analysis of Tityus discrepans scorpion venom and amino acid sequence of novel toxins.	The Venezuelan scorpion Tityus discrepans is known to cause human fatalities. We describe the first complete proteomic analysis of its venom. By HPLC 58 different fractions were obtained and 205 different components were identified by MS analysis. Components having molecular masses from 272 to 57 908 amu were found. Forty homogeneous components had their N-terminal amino acid sequence determined by Edman degradation, from which two new peptides named TdK2 and TdK3 (meaning T. discrepans (Td) K(+) channel toxins 2 and 3) were fully characterized. The first contains 34 amino acid residues with a molecular mass of 3451 amu, and the second has 36 amino acids with 3832 amu. Both peptides are tightly bound by three disulfide bridges. TdK2 was shown to block reversibly the Shaker B K(+)-channel expressed heterologously in Sf9 cells. The systematic number assigned to TdK2 is alpha-KTx-18.2 and that of TdK3 is alpha-KTx-18.3. Comparative analysis of the amino acid sequences found suggests that this venom contains peptides highly similar to those that block K(+) channels, as well as those that modify the gating mechanisms of Na(+) channels, found in other scorpions. Additionally, peptides similar to defensins were also identified.	2006 Jun	Batista, Cesar V F; Batista, CV; Batista; D'Suze, Gina; D'Suze, G; D'Suze; Gómez-Lagunas, Froylan; Gómez-Lagunas, F; Gómez-Lagunas; Zamudio, Fernando Z; Zamudio, FZ; Zamudio; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Sevcik, Carlos; Sevcik, C; Sevcik; Possani, Lourival D; Possani, LD; Possani	Proteomics
16672447	Diazotrophic burkholderia species associated with field-grown maize and sugarcane.	Until recently, diazotrophy was known in only one of the 30 formally described species of Burkholderia. Novel N(2)-fixing plant-associated Burkholderia species such as B. unamae, B. tropica, and B. xenovorans have been described, but their environmental distribution is scarcely known. In the present study, the occurrence of N(2)-fixing Burkholderia species associated with different varieties of sugarcane and maize growing in regions of Mexico and Brazil was analyzed. Only 111 out of more than 900 isolates recovered had N(2)-fixing ability as demonstrated by the acetylene reduction assay. All 111 isolates also yielded a PCR product with primers targeting the nifH gene, which encodes a key enzyme in the process of nitrogen fixation. These 111 isolates were confirmed as belonging to the genus Burkholderia by using a new 16S rRNA-specific primer pair for diazotrophic species (except B. vietnamiensis) and closely related nondiazotrophic Burkholderia. In Mexico, many isolates of B. unamae (predominantly associated with sugarcane) and B. tropica (more often associated with maize) were recovered. However, in Brazil B. tropica was not identified among the isolates analyzed, and only a few B. unamae isolates were recovered from one sugarcane variety. Most Brazilian diazotrophic Burkholderia isolates (associated with both sugarcane and maize plants) belonged to a novel species, as revealed by amplified 16S rRNA gene restriction profiles, 16S rRNA gene sequencing, and protein electrophoresis. In addition, transmissibility factors such as the cblA and esmR genes, identified among clinical and environmental isolates of opportunistic pathogens of B. cenocepacia and other species of the B. cepacia complex, were not detected in any of the plant-associated diazotrophic Burkholderia isolates analyzed.	2006 May	Perin, L; Perin, L; Perin; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar; Castro-González, R; Castro-González, R; Castro-González; Estrada-de Los Santos, P; Estrada-de Los Santos, P; Estrada-de Los Santos; Cabellos-Avelar, T; Cabellos-Avelar, T; Cabellos-Avelar; Guedes, H V; Guedes, HV; Guedes; Reis, V M; Reis, VM; Reis; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	Appl Environ Microbiol
16547149	Proceedings of the SMBE Tri-National Young Investigators' Workshop 2005. Positional conservation of clusters of overlapping promoter-like sequences in enterobacterial genomes.	The selective mechanisms operating in regulatory regions of bacterial genomes are poorly understood. We have previously shown that, in most bacterial genomes, regulatory regions contain high densities of sigma70 promoter-like signals that are significantly above the densities detected in nonregulatory genomic regions. In order to investigate the molecular evolutionary forces that operate in bacterial regulatory regions and how they affect the observed redundancy of promoter-like signals, we have undertaken a comparative analysis across the completely sequenced genomes of enteric gamma-proteobacteria. This analysis detects significant positional conservation of promoter-like signal clusters across enterics, some times in spite of strong primary sequence divergence. This suggests that the conservation of the nature and exact position of specific nucleotides is not necessarily the priority of selection for maintaining the transcriptional function in these bacteria. We have further characterized the structural conservation of the regulatory regions of dnaQ and crp across all enterics. These two regions differ in essentiality and mode of regulation, the regulation of crp being more complex and involving interactions with several transcription factors. This results in substantially different modes of evolution, with the dnaQ region appearing to evolve under stronger purifying selection and the crp region showing the likely effects of stabilizing selection for a complex pattern of gene expression. The higher flexibility of the crp region is consistent with the observed less conservation of global regulators in evolution. Patterns of regulatory evolution are also found to be markedly different in endosymbiotic bacteria, in a manner consistent with regulatory regions suffering some level of degradation, as has been observed for many other characters in these genomes. Therefore, the mode of evolution of bacterial regulatory regions appears to be highly dependent on both the lifestyle of the bacterium and the specific regulatory requirements of different genes. In fact, in many bacteria, the mode of evolution of genes requiring significant physiological adaptability in expression levels may follow patterns similar to those operating in the more complex regulatory regions of eukaryotic genomes.	2006 May	Huerta, Araceli M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Francino, M Pilar; Francino, MP; Francino; SMBE Tri-National Young Investigators	Mol Biol Evol
16564956	Azorhizobium doebereinerae sp. Nov. Microsymbiont of Sesbania virgata (Caz.) Pers.	Thirty-four rhizobium strains were isolated from root nodules of the fast-growing woody native species Sesbania virgata in different regions of southeast Brazil (Minas Gerais and Rio de Janeiro States). These isolates had cultural characteristics on YMA quite similar to Azorhizobium caulinodans (alkalinization, scant extracellular polysaccharide production, fast or intermediate growth rate). They exhibited a high similarity of phenotypic and genotypic characteristics among themselves and to a lesser extent with A. caulinodans. DNA:DNA hybridization and 16SrRNA sequences support their inclusion in the genus Azorhizobium, but not in the species A. caulinodans. The name A. doebereinerae is proposed, with isolate UFLA1-100 (=BR5401, =LMG9993=SEMIA 6401) as the type strain.	2006 Apr	Maria de Souza Moreira, Fátima; Maria de Souza Moreira, F; Maria de Souza Moreira; Cruz, Leonardo; Cruz, L; Cruz; Miana de Faria, Sérgio; Miana de Faria, S; Miana de Faria; Marsh, Terence; Marsh, T; Marsh; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; de Oliveira Pedrosa, Fábio; de Oliveira Pedrosa, F; de Oliveira Pedrosa; Maria Pitard, Rosa; Maria Pitard, R; Maria Pitard; Peter W Young, J; Peter W Young, J; Peter W Young	Syst Appl Microbiol
16564961	Molecular diversity of native bradyrhizobia isolated from lima bean (Phaseolus lunatus L.) in Peru.	The diversity of a collection of 21 bradyrhizobial isolates from Lima bean (Phaseolus lunatus L.) was assayed by molecular methods. Moderately high to high genetic diversity was revealed by multilocus enzyme electrophoresis (MLEE) analysis of seven enzyme loci and genomic fingerprints with ERIC and BOX primers. Two groups with differences in growth rate were found among the isolates and their differentiation as two divergent bradyrhizobial lineages was supported by PCR-RFLP of the rpoB gene and sequence analysis of the 16S rDNA and dnaK genes. Isolates with slow growth (SG) were identified as Bradyrhizobium yuanmingense, while extra-slow growing isolates (ESG) constitute a new lineage different from all described Bradyrhizobium species. Three distinct symbiotic genotypes were detected among Lima bean bradyrhizobia by PCR-RFLP and sequence analysis of the nifH and nodB genes. One genotype was found in the ESG lineage and two in B. yuanmingense. Another symbiotic genotype was detected in B. yuamingense isolated from Lespedeza plants. The identified bradyrhizobial lineages constitute sympatric species effectively nodulating Lima bean on the coast of Peru.	2006 Apr	Ormeño-Orrillo, Ernesto; Ormeño-Orrillo, E; Ormeño-Orrillo; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Zúñiga-Dávila, Doris; Zúñiga-Dávila, D; Zúñiga-Dávila; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
16528104	The Rhizobium etli sigma70 (SigA) factor recognizes a lax consensus promoter.	A collection of Rhizobium etli promoters was isolated from a genomic DNA library constructed in the promoter-trap vector pBBMCS53, by their ability to drive the expression of a gusA reporter gene. Thirty-seven clones were selected, and their transcriptional start-sites were determined. The upstream sequence of these 37 start-sites, and the sequences of seven previously identified promoters were compared. On the basis of sequence conservation and mutational analysis, a consensus sequence CTTGACN16-23TATNNT was obtained. In this consensus sequence, nine on of twelve bases are identical to the canonical Escherichia coli sigma70 promoter, however the R.etli promoters only contain 6.4 conserved bases on average. We show that the R.etli sigma factor SigA recognizes all R.etli promoters studied in this work, and that E.coli RpoD is incapable of recognizing them. The comparison of the predicted structure of SigA with the known structure of RpoD indicated that regions 2.4 and 4.2, responsible for promoter recognition, are different only by a single amino acid, whereas the region 1 of SigA contains 72 extra residues, suggesting that the differences contained in this region could be related to the lax promoter recognition of SigA.	2006	Ramírez-Romero, Miguel A; Ramírez-Romero, MA; Ramírez-Romero; Masulis, Irina; Masulis, I; Masulis; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila	Nucleic Acids Res
17578087	[Agriculture microbiology and microbe interaction with plants].	About the characterization and distribution of novel nitrogen-fixing Burkholderia species associated with maize and other plants and their potential use on the plant growth was presented in this symposium. The symposium included studies directed to the revegetation of eroded areas by using plant growth promoting rhizo-bacteria and mycorrizal fungi associated with desert plants, as well as studies related with the resistance of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi to heavy metals associated with the environmental pollution. In addition, the identification and characterization of a 31-kb chromosomal fragment from Pseudomonas syringae pv. phaseolicola was presented; such a fragment, involved with the phaseolotoxin synthesis, showed characteristic features of a bacterial pathogenicity island.	2006 Apr-Jun	Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	Rev Latinoam Microbiol
16505379	The partitioned Rhizobium etli genome: genetic and metabolic redundancy in seven interacting replicons.	We report the complete 6,530,228-bp genome sequence of the symbiotic nitrogen fixing bacterium Rhizobium etli. Six large plasmids comprise one-third of the total genome size. The chromosome encodes most functions necessary for cell growth, whereas few essential genes or complete metabolic pathways are located in plasmids. Chromosomal synteny is disrupted by genes related to insertion sequences, phages, plasmids, and cell-surface components. Plasmids do not show synteny, and their orthologs are mostly shared by accessory replicons of species with multipartite genomes. Some nodulation genes are predicted to be functionally related with chromosomal loci encoding for the external envelope of the bacterium. Several pieces of evidence suggest an exogenous origin for the symbiotic plasmid (p42d) and p42a. Additional putative horizontal gene transfer events might have contributed to expand the adaptive repertoire of R. etli, because they include genes involved in small molecule metabolism, transport, and transcriptional regulation. Twenty-three putative sigma factors, numerous isozymes, and paralogous families attest to the metabolic redundancy and the genomic plasticity necessary to sustain the lifestyle of R. etli in symbiosis and in the soil.	2006 Mar	González, Víctor; González, V; González; Santamaría, Rosa I; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Hernández-González, Ismael; Hernández-González, I; Hernández-González; Medrano-Soto, Arturo; Medrano-Soto, A; Medrano-Soto; Moreno-Hagelsieb, Gabriel; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb; Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga; Ramírez, Miguel A; Ramírez, MA; Ramírez; Jiménez-Jacinto, Verónica; Jiménez-Jacinto, V; Jiménez-Jacinto; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
16315011	Betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase from Pseudomonas aeruginosa: cloning, over-expression in Escherichia coli, and regulation by choline and salt.	In the human pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa, betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase (BADH) may play a dual role assimilating carbon and nitrogen from choline or choline precursors--abundant at infection sites--and producing glycine betaine, which protects the bacteria against the high-osmolarity stress prevalent in the infected tissues. We cloned the P. aeruginosa BADH gene and expressed the BADH protein in Escherichia coli. The recombinant protein appears identical to its native counterpart, as judged by Western blot, N-terminal amino acid sequence, tryptophan-fluorescence emission spectra, circular-dichroism spectroscopy, size-exclusion chromatography, and kinetic properties. Computational analysis indicated that the promoter sequence of the putative operon that includes the BADH gene has a consensus-binding site for the choline-sensing transcription repressor BetI, and putative boxes for ArcA and Lrp transcription factors but no known elements of response to osmotic stress. This is consistent with the strong induction of BADH expression by choline and with the lack of effect of NaCl. As there were significant amounts of BADH protein and activity in P. aeruginosa cells grown on glucose plus choline, as well as the BADH activity exhibiting tolerance to salt, it is likely that glycine betaine is synthesized in vivo and could play an important osmoprotectant role under conditions of infection.	2006 Mar	Velasco-García, Roberto; Velasco-García, R; Velasco-García; Villalobos, Miguel Angel; Villalobos, MA; Villalobos; Ramírez-Romero, Miguel A; Ramírez-Romero, MA; Ramírez-Romero; Mújica-Jiménez, Carlos; Mújica-Jiménez, C; Mújica-Jiménez; Iturriaga, Gabriel; Iturriaga, G; Iturriaga; Muñoz-Clares, Rosario A; Muñoz-Clares, RA; Muñoz-Clares	Arch Microbiol
16337432	The genome project of Taenia solium.	We have constituted a consortium of key laboratories at the National Autonomous University of Mexico to carry out a genomic project for Taenia solium. This project will provide powerful resources for the study of taeniasis/cysticercosis, and, in conjunction with the Echinococcus granulosus and Echinococcus multilocularis genome project of expressed sequence tags (ESTs), will mark the advent of genomics for cestode parasites. Our project is planned in two consecutive stages. The first stage is being carried out to determine some basic parameters of the T. solium genome. Afterwards, we will evaluate the best strategy for the second stage, a full blown genome project. We have estimated the T. solium genome size by two different approaches: cytofluorometry on isolated cyton nuclei, as well as a probabilistic calculation based on approximately 2000 sequenced genomic clones, approximately 3000 ESTs, resulting in size estimates of 270 and 251 Mb, respectively. In terms of sequencing, our goal for the first stage is to characterize several thousand EST's (from adult worm and cysticerci cDNA libraries) and genomic clones. Results obtained so far from about 16,000 sequenced ESTs from the adult stage, show that only about 40% of the T. solium coding sequences have a previously sequenced homologue. Many of the best hits are found with mammalian genes, especially with humans. However, 1.5% of the hits lack homologues in humans, making these genes immediate candidates for investigation on pharmaco-therapy, diagnostics and vaccination. Most T. solium ESTs are related to gene regulation, and signal transduction. Other important functions are housekeeping, metabolism, cell division, cytoskeleton, proteases, vacuolar transport, hormone response, and extracellular matrix activities. Preliminary results also suggest that the genome of T. solium is not highly repetitive.	2006	Aguilar-Díaz, Hugo; Aguilar-Díaz, H; Aguilar-Díaz; Bobes, Raúl J; Bobes, RJ; Bobes; Carrero, Julio C; Carrero, JC; Carrero; Camacho-Carranza, Rafael; Camacho-Carranza, R; Camacho-Carranza; Cervantes, Claudia; Cervantes, C; Cervantes; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; Rodríguez-Dorantes, Mauricio; Rodríguez-Dorantes, M; Rodríguez-Dorantes; Escobedo, Galileo; Escobedo, G; Escobedo; Fernández, José Luis; Fernández, JL; Fernández; Fragoso, Gladis; Fragoso, G; Fragoso; Gaytán, Paul; Gaytán, P; Gaytán; Garciarubio, Alejandro; Garciarubio, A; Garciarubio; González, Victor M; González, VM; González; González, Lorena; González, L; González; José, Marco V; José, MV; José; Jiménez, Lucía; Jiménez, L; Jiménez; Laclette, Juan P; Laclette, JP; Laclette; Landa, Abraham; Landa, A; Landa; Larralde, Carlos; Larralde, C; Larralde; Morales-Montor, Jorge; Morales-Montor, J; Morales-Montor; Morett, Enrique; Morett, E; Morett; Ostoa-Saloma, Pedro; Ostoa-Saloma, P; Ostoa-Saloma; Sciutto, Edda; Sciutto, E; Sciutto; Santamaría, Rosa I; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Soberón, Xavier; Soberón, X; Soberón; de la Torre, Patricia; de la Torre, P; de la Torre; Valdés, Víctor; Valdés, V; Valdés; Yánez, Jorge; Yánez, J; Yánez	Parasitol Int
16398937	The comprehensive updated regulatory network of Escherichia coli K-12.	Escherichia coli is the model organism for which our knowledge of its regulatory network is the most extensive. Over the last few years, our project has been collecting and curating the literature concerning E. coli transcription initiation and operons, providing in both the RegulonDB and EcoCyc databases the largest electronically encoded network available. A paper published recently by Ma et al. (2004) showed several differences in the versions of the network present in these two databases. Discrepancies have been corrected, annotations from this and other groups (Shen-Orr et al., 2002) have been added, making the RegulonDB and EcoCyc databases the largest comprehensive and constantly curated regulatory network of E. coli K-12.	2006 Jan	Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Peralta-Gil, Martín; Peralta-Gil, M; Peralta-Gil; Peñaloza-Spínola, Mónica I; Peñaloza-Spínola, MI; Peñaloza-Spínola; Martínez-Antonio, Agustino; Martínez-Antonio, A; Martínez-Antonio; Karp, Peter D; Karp, PD; Karp; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	BMC Bioinformatics
17578085	[Genomics and functional genomics in microbiology].	Functional genomics is changing our understanding of biology and changing our approach to biological research. It brings about concerted, high-throughput genetics with analyses of gene transcripts, proteins, and metabolites to answer the ultimate question posed by all genome-sequencing projects: what is the biological function of each and every gene? Functional genomics is stimulating a change in the research paradigm away from the analysis of single genes, proteins, or metabolites towards the analysis of each of these parameters on a global scale. By identifying and measuring several, if not the entire, molecular group of actors that take part in a given biological process, functional genomics offers the panorama of obtaining a truly holistic representation of life. Functional genomics methods are defined by high-throughput methods which are, not necessarily hypothesis-dependent. They offer insights into mRNA expression, protein expression, protein localization, and protein interactions and may cast light on the flow of information within signaling pathways. At its beginning, biology involved observing nature and experimenting on its isolated parts. Genomic research now generates new types of complex observational data derived from nature. This review describes the tools that are currently being used for functional genomics work and considers the impact that this new discipline on microbiology research.	2006 Apr-Jun	Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara	Rev Latinoam Microbiol
32689290	Identification of candidate phosphorus stress induced genes in Phaseolus vulgaris through clustering analysis across several plant species.	Common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) is the world's most important grain legume for direct human consumption. However, the soils in which common bean predominate are frequently limited by the availability of phosphorus (P). Improving bean yield and quality requires an understanding of the genes controlling P acquisition and use, ultimately utilising these genes for crop improvement. Here we report an in silico approach for the identification of genes involved in adaptation of P. vulgaris and other legumes to P-deficiency. Some 22 groups of genes from four legume species and Arabidopsis thaliana, encoding diverse functions, were identified as statistically over-represented in EST contigs from P-stressed tissues. By combining bioinformatics analysis with available micro / macroarray technologies and clustering results across five species, we identified 52 P. vulgaris candidate genes belonging to 19 categories as induced by P-stress response. Transport-related, stress (defence and regulation) signal transduction genes are abundantly represented. Manipulating these genes through traditional breeding methodologies and / or biotechnology approaches may allow us to improve crop P-nutrition.	2006 Aug	Graham, Michelle A; Graham, MA; Graham; Ramírez, Mario; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Valdés-López, Oswaldo; Valdés-López, O; Valdés-López; Lara, Miguel; Lara, M; Lara; Tesfaye, Mesfin; Tesfaye, M; Tesfaye; Vance, Carroll P; Vance, CP; Vance; Hernandez, Georgina; Hernandez, G; Hernandez	Funct Plant Biol
16311037	Internal-sensing machinery directs the activity of the regulatory network in Escherichia coli.	Individual cells need to discern and synchronize transcriptional responses according to variations in external and internal conditions. Metabolites and chemical compounds are sensed by transcription factors (TFs), which direct the corresponding specific transcriptional responses. We propose a classification of the currently known TFs of Escherichia coli based on whether they respond to metabolites incorporated from the exterior, to internally produced compounds, or to both. When analyzing the mutual interactions of TFs, the dominant role of internal signal sensing becomes apparent, greatly due to the role of global regulators of transcription. This work encompasses metabolite-TF interactions, bridging the gap between the metabolic and regulatory networks, thus advancing towards an integrated network model for the understanding of cellular behavior.	2006 Jan	Martínez-Antonio, Agustino; Martínez-Antonio, A; Martínez-Antonio; Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Trends Microbiol
16381895	RegulonDB (version 5.0): Escherichia coli K-12 transcriptional regulatory network, operon organization, and growth conditions.	RegulonDB is the internationally recognized reference database of Escherichia coli K-12 offering curated knowledge of the regulatory network and operon organization. It is currently the largest electronically-encoded database of the regulatory network of any free-living organism. We present here the recently launched RegulonDB version 5.0 radically different in content, interface design and capabilities. Continuous curation of original scientific literature provides the evidence behind every single object and feature. This knowledge is complemented with comprehensive computational predictions across the complete genome. Literature-based and predicted data are clearly distinguished in the database. Starting with this version, RegulonDB public releases are synchronized with those of EcoCyc since our curation supports both databases. The complex biology of regulation is simplified in a navigation scheme based on three major streams: genes, operons and regulons. Regulatory knowledge is directly available in every navigation step. Displays combine graphic and textual information and are organized allowing different levels of detail and biological context. This knowledge is the backbone of an integrated system for the graphic display of the network, graphic and tabular microarray comparisons with curated and predicted objects, as well as predictions across bacterial genomes, and predicted networks of functionally related gene products. Access RegulonDB at http://regulondb.ccg.unam.mx.	2006 Jan	Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Peralta-Gil, Martín; Peralta-Gil, M; Peralta-Gil; Díaz-Peredo, Edgar; Díaz-Peredo, E; Díaz-Peredo; Sánchez-Solano, Fabiola; Sánchez-Solano, F; Sánchez-Solano; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Martínez-Flores, Irma; Martínez-Flores, I; Martínez-Flores; Jiménez-Jacinto, Verónica; Jiménez-Jacinto, V; Jiménez-Jacinto; Bonavides-Martínez, César; Bonavides-Martínez, C; Bonavides-Martínez; Segura-Salazar, Juan; Segura-Salazar, J; Segura-Salazar; Martínez-Antonio, Agustino; Martínez-Antonio, A; Martínez-Antonio; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
16914446	The distinctive signatures of promoter regions and operon junctions across prokaryotes.	Here we show that regions upstream of first transcribed genes have oligonucleotide signatures that distinguish them from regions upstream of genes in the middle of operons. Databases of experimentally confirmed transcription units do not exist for most genomes. Thus, to expand the analyses into genomes with no experimentally confirmed data, we used genes conserved adjacent in evolutionarily distant genomes as representatives of genes inside operons. Likewise, we used divergently transcribed genes as representative examples of first transcribed genes. In model organisms, the trinucleotide signatures of regions upstream of these representative genes allow for operon predictions with accuracies close to those obtained with known operon data (0.8). Signature-based operon predictions have more similar phylogenetic profiles and higher proportions of genes in the same pathways than predicted transcription unit boundaries (TUBs). These results confirm that we are separating genes with related functions, as expected for operons, from genes not necessarily related, as expected for genes in different transcription units. We also test the quality of the predictions using microarray data in six genomes and show that the signature-predicted operons tend to have high correlations of expression. Oligonucleotide signatures should expand the number of tools available to identify operons even in poorly characterized genomes.	2006	Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga; Lamboy, Warren F; Lamboy, WF; Lamboy; Huerta, Araceli M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Moreno-Hagelsieb, Gabriel; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb	Nucleic Acids Res
16333295	Minimum information requested in the annotation of biochemical models (MIRIAM).	Most of the published quantitative models in biology are lost for the community because they are either not made available or they are insufficiently characterized to allow them to be reused. The lack of a standard description format, lack of stringent reviewing and authors' carelessness are the main causes for incomplete model descriptions. With today's increased interest in detailed biochemical models, it is necessary to define a minimum quality standard for the encoding of those models. We propose a set of rules for curating quantitative models of biological systems. These rules define procedures for encoding and annotating models represented in machine-readable form. We believe their application will enable users to (i) have confidence that curated models are an accurate reflection of their associated reference descriptions, (ii) search collections of curated models with precision, (iii) quickly identify the biological phenomena that a given curated model or model constituent represents and (iv) facilitate model reuse and composition into large subcellular models.	2005 Dec	Le Novère, Nicolas; Le Novère, N; Le Novère; Finney, Andrew; Finney, A; Finney; Hucka, Michael; Hucka, M; Hucka; Bhalla, Upinder S; Bhalla, US; Bhalla; Campagne, Fabien; Campagne, F; Campagne; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Crampin, Edmund J; Crampin, EJ; Crampin; Halstead, Matt; Halstead, M; Halstead; Klipp, Edda; Klipp, E; Klipp; Mendes, Pedro; Mendes, P; Mendes; Nielsen, Poul; Nielsen, P; Nielsen; Sauro, Herbert; Sauro, H; Sauro; Shapiro, Bruce; Shapiro, B; Shapiro; Snoep, Jacky L; Snoep, JL; Snoep; Spence, Hugh D; Spence, HD; Spence; Wanner, Barry L; Wanner, BL; Wanner	Nat Biotechnol
16236313	Comparative studies of transcriptional regulation mechanisms in a group of eight gamma-proteobacterial genomes.	Experimental data on the Escherichia coli transcriptional regulation has enabled the construction of statistical models to predict new regulatory elements within its genome. Far less is known about the transcriptional regulatory elements in other gamma-proteobacteria with sequenced genomes, so it is of great interest to conduct comparative genomic studies oriented to extracting biologically relevant information about transcriptional regulation in these less studied organisms using the knowledge from E. coli. In this work, we use the information stored in the TRACTOR_DB database to conduct a comparative study on the mechanisms of transcriptional regulation in eight gamma-proteobacteria and 38 regulons. We assess the conservation of transcription factors binding specificity across all the eight genomes and show a correlation between the conservation of a regulatory site and the structure of the transcription unit it regulates. We also find a marked conservation of site-promoter distances across the eight organisms and a correspondence of the statistical significance of co-occurrence of pairs of transcription factor binding sites in the regulatory regions, which is probably related to a conserved architecture of higher-order regulatory complexes in the organisms studied. The results obtained in this study using the information on transcriptional regulation in E. coli enable us to conclude that not only transcription factor-binding sites are conserved across related species but also several of the transcriptional regulatory mechanisms previously identified in E. coli.	2005 Nov	Espinosa, Vladimir; Espinosa, V; Espinosa; González, Abel D; González, AD; González; Vasconcelos, Ana T; Vasconcelos, AT; Vasconcelos; Huerta, Araceli M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	J Mol Biol
16183216	The mitochondrial genome sequence of the scorpion Centruroides limpidus (Karsch 1879) (Chelicerata; Arachnida).	The mitochondrial genome of the scorpion Centruroides limpidus (Chelicerata; Arachnida) has been completely sequenced and is 14519 bp long. The genome contains 13 protein-encoding genes, two ribosomal RNA genes, 21 transfer RNA genes and a large non-coding region related to the control region. The overall A+T composition is the lowest among the complete mitochondrial sequences published within the Chelicerata subphylum. Gene order and gene content differ slightly from that of Limulus polyphemus (Chelicerata: Xiphosura): i.e., the lack of the trnD gene, and the translocation-inversion of the trnI gene. Preliminary phylogenetic analysis of some Chelicerata shows that scorpions (C. limpidus and Mesobuthus gibbosus) make a tight cluster with the spiders (Arachnida; Araneae). Our analysis does not support that Scorpiones order is the sister group to all Arachnida Class, since it is closer to Araneae than to Acari orders.	2005 Nov	Dávila, Sonia; Dávila, S; Dávila; Piñero, Daniel; Piñero, D; Piñero; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila	Gene
15867197	Nebulon: a system for the inference of functional relationships of gene products from the rearrangement of predicted operons.	Since operons are unstable across Prokaryotes, it has been suggested that perhaps they re-combine in a conservative manner. Thus, genes belonging to a given operon in one genome might re-associate in other genomes revealing functional relationships among gene products. We developed a system to build networks of functional relationships of gene products based on their organization into operons in any available genome. The operon predictions are based on inter-genic distances. Our system can use different kinds of thresholds to accept a functional relationship, either related to the prediction of operons, or to the number of non-redundant genomes that support the associations. We also work by shells, meaning that we decide on the number of linking iterations to allow for the complementation of related gene sets. The method shows high reliability benchmarked against knowledge-bases of functional interactions. We also illustrate the use of Nebulon in finding new members of regulons, and of other functional groups of genes. Operon rearrangements produce thousands of high-quality new interactions per prokaryotic genome, and thousands of confirmations per genome to other predictions, making it another important tool for the inference of functional interactions from genomic context.	2005	Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Moreno-Hagelsieb, Gabriel; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb	Nucleic Acids Res
16353552	A ClC chloride channel homolog and ornithine-containing membrane lipids of Rhizobium tropici CIAT899 are involved in symbiotic efficiency and acid tolerance.	Rhizobium tropici CIAT899 is highly tolerant to several environmental stresses and is a good competitor for nodule occupancy of common bean plants in acid soils. Random transposon mutagenesis was performed to identify novel genes of this strain involved in symbiosis and stress tolerance. Here, we present a genetic analysis of the locus disrupted by the Tn5 insertion in mutant 899-PV9, which lead to the discovery of sycA, a homolog of the ClC family of chloride channels and Cl-/H+ exchange transporters. A nonpolar deletion in this gene caused serious deficiencies in nodule development, nodulation competitiveness, and N2 fixation on Phaseolus vulgaris plants, probably due to its reduced ability to invade plant cells and to form stable symbiosomes, as judged by electron transmission microscopy. A second gene (olsC), found downstream of sycA, is homologous to aspartyl/asparaginyl beta-hydroxylases and modifies two species of ornithine-containing lipids in vivo, presumably by hydroxylation at a still-unknown position. A mutant carrying a nonpolar deletion in olsC is symbiotically defective, whereas overexpressed OlsC in the complemented strain provokes an acid-sensitive phenotype. This is the first report of a ClC homolog being essential for the establishment of a fully developed N2-fixing root nodule symbiosis and of a putative beta-hydroxylase that modifies ornithine-containing membrane lipids of R. tropici CIAT899, which, in turn, are contributing to symbiotic performance and acid tolerance.	2005 Nov	Rojas-Jiménez, Keilor; Rojas-Jiménez, K; Rojas-Jiménez; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Werner, Dietrich; Werner, D; Werner; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
16005966	An antisense RNA plays a central role in the replication control of a repC plasmid.	The widespread replicons of repABC and repC families from alpha-proteobacteria share high similarity in their replication initiator proteins (RepC). Here we describe the minimal region required for stable replication of a member of the repC family, the low copy-number plasmid pRmeGR4a from Sinorizobium meliloti GR4. This region contains only two genes: one encoding the initiator protein RepC (46.8 kDa) and other, an antisense RNA (67 nt). Mapping of transcriptional start sites and promoter regions of both genes showed that the antisense RNA is nested within the repC mRNA leader. The constitutively expressed countertranscribed RNA (ctRNA) forms a single stem-loop structure that acts as an intrinsic rho-independent terminator. The ctRNA is a strong trans-incompatibility factor and negative regulator of repC expression. Based on structural and functional similarities between members of the repC and repABC families we propose a model of their evolutionary relationship.	2005 Nov	Izquierdo, Javier; Izquierdo, J; Izquierdo; Venkova-Canova, Tatiana; Venkova-Canova, T; Venkova-Canova; Ramírez-Romero, Miguel A; Ramírez-Romero, MA; Ramírez-Romero; Téllez-Sosa, Juan; Téllez-Sosa, J; Téllez-Sosa; Hernández-Lucas, Ismael; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Sanjuan, Juan; Sanjuan, J; Sanjuan; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	Plasmid
16237002	Diversification of DNA sequences in the symbiotic genome of Rhizobium etli.	Bacteria of the genus Rhizobium and related genera establish nitrogen-fixing symbioses with the roots of leguminous plants. The genetic elements that participate in the symbiotic process are usually compartmentalized in the genome, either as independent replicons (symbiotic plasmids) or as symbiotic regions or islands in the chromosome. The complete nucleotide sequence of the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium etli model strain CFN42, symbiont of the common bean plant, has been reported. To better understand the basis of DNA sequence diversification of this symbiotic compartment, we analyzed the distribution of single-nucleotide polymorphisms in homologous regions from different Rhizobium etli strains. The distribution of polymorphisms is highly asymmetric in each of the different strains, alternating regions containing very few changes with regions harboring an elevated number of substitutions. The regions showing high polymorphism do not correspond with discrete genetic elements and are not the same in the different strains, indicating that they are not hypervariable regions of functional genes. Most interesting, some highly polymorphic regions share exactly the same nucleotide substitutions in more than one strain. Furthermore, in different regions of the symbiotic compartment, different sets of strains share the same substitutions. The data indicate that the majority of nucleotide substitutions are spread in the population by recombination and that the contribution of new mutations to polymorphism is relatively low. We propose that the horizontal transfer of homologous DNA segments among closely related organisms is a major source of genomic diversification.	2005 Nov	Flores, Margarita; Flores, M; Flores; Morales, Lucia; Morales, L; Morales; Avila, Agustín; Avila, A; Avila; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; García, Delfino; García, D; García; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Guo, Xianwu; Guo, X; Guo; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Piñero, Daniel; Piñero, D; Piñero; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora; Palacios, Rafael; Palacios, R; Palacios	J Bacteriol
16262857	Evolutionary genetics and biogeographic structure of Rhizobium gallicum sensu lato, a widely distributed bacterial symbiont of diverse legumes.	We used phylogenetic and population genetics approaches to evaluate the importance of the evolutionary forces on shaping the genetic structure of Rhizobium gallicum and related species. We analysed 54 strains from several populations distributed in the Northern Hemisphere, using nucleotide sequences of three 'core' chromosomal genes (rrs, glnII and atpD) and two 'auxiliary' symbiotic genes (nifH and nodB) to elucidate the biogeographic history of the species and symbiotic ecotypes (biovarieties) within species. The analyses revealed that strains classified as Rhizobium mongolense and Rhizobium yanglingense belong to the chromosomal evolutionary lineage of R. gallicum and harbour symbiotic genes corresponding to a new biovar; we propose their reclassification as R. gallicum bv. orientale. The comparison of the chromosomal and symbiotic genes revealed evidence of lateral transfer of symbiotic information within and across species. Genetic differentiation analyses based on the chromosomal protein-coding genes revealed a biogeographic pattern with three main populations, whereas the 16S rDNA sequences did not resolve that biogeographic pattern. Both the phylogenetic and population genetic analyses showed evidence of recombination at the rrs locus. We discuss our results in the light of the contrasting views of bacterial species expressed by microbial taxonomist and evolutionary biologists.	2005 Nov	Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Eguiarte, Luis E; Eguiarte, LE; Eguiarte; Souza, Valeria; Souza, V; Souza; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Mol Ecol
16237017	Identification of the rctA gene, which is required for repression of conjugative transfer of rhizobial symbiotic megaplasmids.	An analysis of the conjugative transfer of pRetCFN42d, the symbiotic plasmid (pSym) of Rhizobium etli, has revealed a novel gene, rctA, as an essential element of a regulatory system for silencing the conjugative transfer of R. etli pSym by repressing the transcription of conjugal transfer genes in standard laboratory media. The rctA gene product lacks sequence conservation with other proteins of known function but may belong to the winged-helix DNA-binding subfamily of transcriptional regulators. Similar to that of many transcriptional repressors, rctA transcription seems to be positively autoregulated. rctA expression is greatly reduced upon overexpression of another gene, rctB, previously identified as a putative activator of R. etli pSym conjugal transfer. Thus, rctB seems to counteract the repressive action of rctA. rctA homologs are present in at least three other bacterial genomes within the order Rhizobiales, where they are invariably located adjacent to and divergently transcribed from putative virB-like operons. We show that similar to that of R. etli pSym, conjugative transfer of the 1.35-Mb symbiotic megaplasmid A of Sinorhizobium meliloti is also subjected to the inhibitory action of rctA. Our data provide strong evidence that the R. etli and S. meliloti pSym plasmids are indeed self-conjugative plasmids and that this property would only be expressed under optimal, as yet unknown conditions that entail inactivation of the rctA function. The rctA gene seems to represent novel but probably widespread regulatory systems controlling the transfer of conjugative elements within the order Rhizobiales.	2005 Nov	Pérez-Mendoza, Daniel; Pérez-Mendoza, D; Pérez-Mendoza; Sepúlveda, Edgardo; Sepúlveda, E; Sepúlveda; Pando, Victoria; Pando, V; Pando; Muñoz, Socorro; Muñoz, S; Muñoz; Nogales, Joaquina; Nogales, J; Nogales; Olivares, José; Olivares, J; Olivares; Soto, Maria J; Soto, MJ; Soto; Herrera-Cervera, José A; Herrera-Cervera, JA; Herrera-Cervera; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; Sanjuán, Juan; Sanjuán, J; Sanjuán	J Bacteriol
16229745	Evolutionary, structural and functional relationships revealed by comparative analysis of syntenic genes in Rhizobiales.	Comparative genomics has provided valuable insights into the nature of gene sequence variation and chromosomal organization of closely related bacterial species. However, questions about the biological significance of gene order conservation, or synteny, remain open. Moreover, few comprehensive studies have been reported for rhizobial genomes.	2005 Oct	Guerrero, Gabriela; Guerrero, G; Guerrero; Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta; Aguilar, Alejandro; Aguilar, A; Aguilar; Díaz, Rafael; Díaz, R; Díaz; Villalobos, Miguel Angel; Villalobos, MA; Villalobos; Medrano-Soto, Arturo; Medrano-Soto, A; Medrano-Soto; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	BMC Evol Biol
16261860	Molecular systematics of rhizobia based on maximum likelihood and Bayesian phylogenies inferred from rrs, atpD, recA and nifH sequences, and their use in the classification of Sesbania microsymbionts from Venezuelan wetlands.	A well-resolved rhizobial species phylogeny with 51 haplotypes was inferred from a combined atpD + recA data set using Bayesian inference with best-fit, gene-specific substitution models. Relatively dense taxon sampling for the genera Rhizobium and Mesorhizobium was achieved by generating atpD and recA sequences for six type and 24 reference strains not previously available in GenBank. This phylogeny was used to classify nine nodule isolates from Sesbania exasperata, S. punicea and S. sericea plants native to seasonally flooded areas of Venezuela, and compared with a PCR-RFLP analysis of rrs plus rrl genes and large maximum likelihood rrs and nifH phylogenies. We show that rrs phylogenies are particularly sensitive to strain choice due to the high levels of sequence mosaicism found at this locus. All analyses consistently identified the Sesbania isolates as Mesorhizobium plurifarium or Rhizobium huautlense. Host range experiments on ten legume species coupled with plasmid profiling uncovered potential novel biovarieties of both species. This study demonstrates the wide geographic and environmental distribution of M. plurifarium, that R. galegae and R. huautlense are sister lineages, and the synonymy of R. gallicum, R. mongolense and R. yanglingense. Complex and diverse phylogeographic, inheritance and host-association patterns were found for the symbiotic nifH locus. The results and the analytical approaches used herein are discussed in the context of rhizobial taxonomy and molecular systematics.	2005 Oct	Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva; Lorite, María José; Lorite, MJ; Lorite; Izaguirre-Mayoral, María Luisa; Izaguirre-Mayoral, ML; Izaguirre-Mayoral; Bedmar, Eulogio J; Bedmar, EJ; Bedmar; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
16099603	The Rhizobium etli bioMNY operon is involved in biotin transport.	Because Rhizobium etli CE3 is normally dependent on an external source of biotin and lacks orthodox biotin biosynthesis genes, we undertook an analysis of biotin uptake in this organism. By complementation of a Sinorhizobium meliloti bioM mutant we isolated an R. etli chromosomal region encoding homologs of the S. meliloti bioMNB genes, whose products have been implicated in intracellular biotin retention in that organism. Disruption of the R. etli bioM resulted in a mutant which took up biotin at a lower rate and accumulated significantly less biotin than the wild type. As in S. meliloti, the R. etli bioMN gene-products resemble the ATPase and permease components, respectively, of an ABC-type transporter. The bioB gene product is in fact similar to members of the BioY family, which has been postulated to function in biotin transport, and we refer to this gene as bioY. An R. etli bioY mutant exhibited lower biotin uptake than the wild-type, providing the first experimental evidence for a role of BioY in biotin transport. We show that the bioMNY operon is transcriptionally repressed by biotin. An analysis of the competitiveness of the wild-type strain versus the bioM mutant showed that the mutant had a diminished capacity to form nodules on bean plants.	2005 Sep	Guillén-Navarro, Karina; Guillén-Navarro, K; Guillén-Navarro; Araíza, Gisela; Araíza, G; Araíza; García-de los Santos, Alejandro; García-de los Santos, A; García-de los Santos; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn	FEMS Microbiol Lett
16329972	Antagonism among Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus strains in culture media and in endophytic association.	In this study the antagonistic activity among 55 Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus strains, belonging to 13 electrophoretic types (ETs), in culture media was analyzed. Antagonistic effects were seen only in strains belonging to two ETs named ET-1 and ET-3. Two out of 29 ET-1 strains, and 3 out of 7 ET-3 strains of G. diazotrophicus showed antagonistic effects against many other strains belonging to all the ETs of this species analyzed, and against closely related strains of Gluconacetobacter species, including Gluconacetobacter johannae, Gluconacetobacter azotocaptans and Gluconacetobacter liquefaciens but not against other phylogenetically distant bacterial species. Results showed that the substance responsible of such antagonistic activity is a low molecular mass molecule (approximately 3400 Da), stable from pH 3.5 to 8.5, and very stable at 4 degrees C for 10 months. This substance was sensitive to proteases, and the antagonistic activity was lost after 2 h at 95 degrees C. All of these features show that the substance is related to bacteriocin-like molecules. The antagonistic substance should be chromosomally encoded because ET-3 strains of G. diazotrophicus do not harbor any plasmids. The antagonistic ability of ET-3 strains of G. diazotrophicus could be an advantage for the natural colonization of the sugarcane environment, as was observed in experiments with micropropagated sterile sugarcane plantlets co-inoculated with a bacteriocin-producer strain and a bacteriocin-sensitive strain of G. diazotrophicus. In these experiments, both in the rhizosphere as well as inside the roots, the bacteriocin-sensitive population decreased drastically. In addition, this study shows that inside the plants there may exist antagonistic interactions among endophytic bacteria like to those described among the rhizospheric community.	2005 Sep	Muñoz-Rojas, Jesús; Muñoz-Rojas, J; Muñoz-Rojas; Fuentes-Ramírez, Luis E; Fuentes-Ramírez, LE; Fuentes-Ramírez; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	FEMS Microbiol Ecol
16167767	Phosphorus-free membrane lipids of Sinorhizobium meliloti are not required for the symbiosis with alfalfa but contribute to increased cell yields under phosphorus-limiting conditions of growth.	The microsymbiont of alfalfa, Sinorhizobium meliloti, possesses phosphatidylglycerol, cardiolipin, phosphatidylethanolamine, and phosphatidylcholine as major membrane phospholipids, when grown in the presence of sufficient accessible phosphorus sources. Under phosphate-limiting conditions of growth, S. meliloti replaces its phospholipids by membrane lipids that do not contain any phosphorus in their molecular structure and, in S. meliloti, these phosphorus-free membrane lipids are sulphoquinovosyl diacylglycerols (SL), ornithine-containing lipids (OL), and diacylglyceryl-N,N,N-trimethylhomoserines (DGTS). In earlier work, we demonstrated that neither SL nor OL are required for establishing a nitrogen-fixing root nodule symbiosis with alfalfa. We now report the identification of the two structural genes btaA and btaB from S. meliloti required for DGTS biosynthesis. When the sinorhizobial btaA and btaB genes are expressed in Escherichia coli, they cause the formation of DGTS in this latter organism. A btaA-deficient mutant of S. meliloti is unable to form DGTS but can form nitrogen-fixing root nodules on alfalfa, demonstrating that sinorhizobial DGTS is not required for establishing a successful symbiosis with the host plant. Even a triple mutant of S. meliloti, unable to form any of the phosphorus-free membrane lipids SL, OL, or DGTS is equally competitive for nodule occupancy as the wild type. Only under growth-limiting concentrations of phosphate in culture media did mutants that could form neither OL nor DGTS grow to lesser cell densities.	2005 Sep	López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Gao, Jun-Lian; Gao, JL; Gao; Soto, María José; Soto, MJ; Soto; Solares-Pérez, Alhondra; Solares-Pérez, A; Solares-Pérez; Weissenmayer, Barbara; Weissenmayer, B; Weissenmayer; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Verroios, George P; Verroios, GP; Verroios; Thomas-Oates, Jane; Thomas-Oates, J; Thomas-Oates; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
16145578	Comparative proteomics using 2-D gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry as tools to dissect stimulons and regulons in bacteria with sequenced or partially sequenced genomes.	We propose two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) and mass spectrometry to define the protein components of regulons and stimulons in bacteria, including those organisms where genome sequencing is still in progress. The basic 2-DE protocol allows high resolution and reproducibility and enables the direct comparison of hundreds or even thousands of proteins simultaneously. To identify proteins that comprise stimulons and regulons, peptide mass fingerprint (PMF) with matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization/time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS) analysis is the first option and, if results from this tool are insufficient, complementary data obtained with electrospray ionization tandem-MS (ESI-MS/MS) may permit successful protein identification. ESI-MS/MS and MALDI-TOF-MS provide complementary data sets, and so a more comprehensive coverage of a proteome can be obtained using both techniques with the same sample, especially when few sequenced proteins of a particular organism exist or genome sequencing is still in progress.	2005	Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Hernández, Magdalena; Hernández, M; Hernández; Martínez-Batallar, Gabriel; Martínez-Batallar, G; Martínez-Batallar; Contreras, Sandra; Contreras, S; Contreras; Vargas, María del Carmen; Vargas, Mdel C; Vargas; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	Biol Proced Online
15972018	Complementing computationally predicted regulatory sites in Tractor_DB using a pattern matching approach.	Prokaryotic genomes annotation has focused on genes location and function. The lack of regulatory information has limited the knowledge on cellular transcriptional regulatory networks. However, as more phylogenetically close genomes are sequenced and annotated, the implementation of phylogenetic footprinting strategies for the recognition of regulators and their regulons becomes more important. In this paper we describe a comparative genomics approach to the prediction of new gamma-proteobacterial regulon members. We take advantage of the phylogenetic proximity of Escherichia coli and other 16 organisms of this subdivision and the intensive search of the space sequence provided by a pattern-matching strategy. Using this approach we complement predictions of regulatory sites made using statistical models currently stored in Tractor_DB, and increase the number of transcriptional regulators with predicted binding sites up to 86. All these computational predictions may be reached at Tractor_DB (www.bioinfo.cu/Tractor_DB, www.tractor.lncc.br, www.ccg.unam.mx/Computational_Genomics/tractorDB/). We also take a first step in this paper towards the assessment of the conservation of the architecture of the regulatory network in the gamma-proteobacteria through evaluating the conservation of the overall connectivity of the network.	2005	Guía, Marylens Hernández; Guía, MH; Guía; Pérez, Abel González; Pérez, AG; Pérez; Angarica, Vladimir Espinosa; Angarica, VE; Angarica; Vasconcelos, Ana T; Vasconcelos, AT; Vasconcelos; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	In Silico Biol
15969646	The network of transcriptional interactions imposes linear constrains in the genome.	Two prokaryotic organisms for which transcriptional regulatory interactions have been well elucidated by experimental means are Escherichia coli and Bacillus subtilis. Here we show, with the help of simulations and from known data, the importance of proximity of the transcription factor gene and the respective regulated gene in regulatory networks. We discuss the importance of the location of external sensing machinery close to the genes for transcription factors that regulate them in light of our finding.	2005	Menchaca-Mendez, Ricardo; Menchaca-Mendez, R; Menchaca-Mendez; Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	OMICS
16090013	Nonlinear software sensor for monitoring genetic regulation processes with noise and modeling errors.	Nonlinear control techniques by means of a software sensor that are commonly used in chemical engineering could be also applied to genetic regulation processes. We provide here a realistic formulation of this procedure by introducing an additive white Gaussian noise, which is usually found in experimental data. Besides, we include model errors, meaning that we assume we do not know the nonlinear regulation function of the process. In order to illustrate this procedure, we employ the Goodwin dynamics of the concentrations [B. C. Goodwin, (Academic, New York, 1963)] in the simple form recently applied to single gene systems and some operon cases [H. De Jong, J. Comput. Biol. 9, 67 (2002)], which involves the dynamics of the mRNA, given protein and metabolite concentrations. Further, we present results for a three gene case in coregulated sets of transcription units as they occur in prokaryotes. However, instead of considering their full dynamics, we use only the data of the metabolites and a designed software sensor. We also show, more generally, that it is possible to rebuild the complete set of nonmeasured concentrations despite the uncertainties in the regulation function or, even more, in the case of not knowing the mRNA dynamics. In addition, the rebuilding of concentrations is not affected by the perturbation due to the additive white Gaussian noise and also we managed to filter the noisy output of the biological system.	2005 Jul	Ibarra-Junquera, V; Ibarra-Junquera, V; Ibarra-Junquera; Torres, L A; Torres, LA; Torres; Rosu, H C; Rosu, HC; Rosu; Argüello, G; Argüello, G; Argüello; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys
15937174	Gene conversion tracts associated with crossovers in Rhizobium etli.	Gene conversion has been defined as the nonreciprocal transfer of information between homologous sequences. Despite its broad interest for genome evolution, the occurrence of this mechanism in bacteria has been difficult to ascertain due to the possible occurrence of multiple crossover events that would mimic gene conversion. In this work, we employ a novel system, based on cointegrate formation, to isolate gene conversion events associated with crossovers in the nitrogen-fixing bacterium Rhizobium etli. In this system, selection is applied only for cointegrate formation, with gene conversions being detected as unselected events. This minimizes the likelihood of multiple crossovers. To track the extent and architecture of gene conversions, evenly spaced nucleotide changes were made in one of the nitrogenase structural genes (nifH), introducing unique sites for different restriction endonucleases. Our results show that (i) crossover events were almost invariably accompanied by a gene conversion event occurring nearby; (ii) gene conversion events ranged in size from 150 bp to 800 bp; (iii) gene conversion events displayed a strong bias, favoring the preservation of incoming sequences; (iv) even small amounts of sequence divergence had a strong effect on recombination frequency; and (v) the MutS mismatch repair system plays an important role in determining the length of gene conversion segments. A detailed analysis of the architecture of the conversion events suggests that multiple crossovers are an unlikely alternative for their generation. Our results are better explained as the product of true gene conversions occurring under the double-strand break repair model for recombination.	2005 Jun	Santoyo, Gustavo; Santoyo, G; Santoyo; Martínez-Salazar, Jaime M; Martínez-Salazar, JM; Martínez-Salazar; Rodríguez, César; Rodríguez, C; Rodríguez; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero	J Bacteriol
15899401	Biotin biosynthesis, transport and utilization in rhizobia.	Biotin, a B-group vitamin, performs an essential metabolic function in all organisms. Rhizobia are alpha-proteobacteria with the remarkable ability to form a nitrogen-fixing symbiosis in combination with a compatible legume host, a process in which the importance of biotin biosynthesis and/or transport has been demonstrated for some rhizobia-legume combinations. Rhizobia have also been used to delimit the biosynthesis, metabolic effects and, more recently, transport of biotin. Molecular genetic analysis shows that an orthodox biotin biosynthesis pathway occurs in some rhizobia while others appear to synthesize the vitamin using alternative pathways. In addition to its well established function as a prosthetic group for biotin-dependent carboxylases, we are beginning to delineate a role for biotin as a metabolic regulator in rhizobia.	2005 May	Guillén-Navarro, Karina; Guillén-Navarro, K; Guillén-Navarro; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn	FEMS Microbiol Lett
15808740	Gene conversion and concerted evolution in bacterial genomes.	Gene conversion is defined as the non-reciprocal transfer of information between homologous sequences. Despite methodological problems to establish non-reciprocity, gene conversion has been demonstrated in a wide variety of bacteria. Besides examples of high-frequency reversion of mutations in repeated genes, gene conversion in bacterial genomes has been implicated in concerted evolution of multigene families. Gene conversion also has a prime importance in the generation of antigenic variation, an interesting mechanism whereby some bacterial pathogens are able to avoid the host immune system. In this review, we analyze examples of bacterial gene conversion (some of them spawned from the current genomic revolution), as well as the molecular models that explain gene conversion and its association with crossovers.	2005 Apr	Santoyo, Gustavo; Santoyo, G; Santoyo; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero	FEMS Microbiol Rev
15900973	Natural association of Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus and diazotrophic Acetobacter peroxydans with wetland rice.	The family Acetobacteraceae currently includes three known nitrogen-fixing species, Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus, G. johannae and G. azotocaptans. In the present study, acetic acid-producing nitrogen-fixing bacteria were isolated from four different wetland rice varieties cultivated in the state of Tamilnadu, India. Most of these isolates were identified as G. diazotrophicus on the basis of their phenotypic characteristics and PCR assays using specific primers for that species. Based on 16S rDNA partial sequence analysis and DNA: DNA reassociation experiments the remaining isolates were identified as Acetobacter peroxydans, another species of the Acetobacteraceae family, thus far never reported as diazotrophic. The presence of nifH genes in A. peroxydans was confirmed by PCR amplification with nifH specific primers. Scope for the findings: This is the first report of the occurrence and association of N2-fixing Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus and Acetobacter peroxydans with wetland rice varieties. This is the first report of diazotrophic nature of A. peroxydans.	2005 Apr	Muthukumarasamy, Ramachandran; Muthukumarasamy, R; Muthukumarasamy; Cleenwerck, Ilse; Cleenwerck, I; Cleenwerck; Revathi, Gopalakrishnan; Revathi, G; Revathi; Vadivelu, Muthaiyan; Vadivelu, M; Vadivelu; Janssens, D; Janssens, D; Janssens; Hoste, B; Hoste, B; Hoste; Gum, Kang Ui; Gum, KU; Gum; Park, Ki-Do; Park, KD; Park; Son, Cho Young; Son, CY; Son; Sa, Tongmin; Sa, T; Sa; Caballero-Mellado, Jesus; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	Syst Appl Microbiol
15824284	Sequencing and analysis of common bean ESTs. Building a foundation for functional genomics.	Although common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) is the most important grain legume in the developing world for human consumption, few genomic resources exist for this species. The objectives of this research were to develop expressed sequence tag (EST) resources for common bean and assess nodule gene expression through high-density macroarrays. We sequenced a total of 21,026 ESTs derived from 5 different cDNA libraries, including nitrogen-fixing root nodules, phosphorus-deficient roots, developing pods, and leaves of the Mesoamerican genotype, Negro Jamapa 81. The fifth source of ESTs was a leaf cDNA library derived from the Andean genotype, G19833. Of the total high-quality sequences, 5,703 ESTs were classified as singletons, while 10,078 were assembled into 2,226 contigs producing a nonredundant set of 7,969 different transcripts. Sequences were grouped according to 4 main categories, metabolism (34%), cell cycle and plant development (11%), interaction with the environment (19%), and unknown function (36%), and further subdivided into 15 subcategories. Comparisons to other legume EST projects suggest that an entirely different repertoire of genes is expressed in common bean nodules. Phaseolus-specific contigs, gene families, and single nucleotide polymorphisms were also identified from the EST collection. Functional aspects of individual bean organs were reflected by the 20 contigs from each library composed of the most redundant ESTs. The abundance of transcripts corresponding to selected contigs was evaluated by RNA blots to determine whether gene expression determined by laboratory methods correlated with in silico expression. Evaluation of root nodule gene expression by macroarrays and RNA blots showed that genes related to nitrogen and carbon metabolism are integrated for ureide production. Resources developed in this project provide genetic and genomic tools for an international consortium devoted to bean improvement.	2005 Apr	Ramírez, Mario; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Graham, Michelle A; Graham, MA; Graham; Blanco-López, Lourdes; Blanco-López, L; Blanco-López; Silvente, Sonia; Silvente, S; Silvente; Medrano-Soto, Arturo; Medrano-Soto, A; Medrano-Soto; Blair, Matthew W; Blair, MW; Blair; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Vance, Carroll P; Vance, CP; Vance; Lara, Miguel; Lara, M; Lara	Plant Physiol
15774626	Bradyrhizobium canariense sp. nov., an acid-tolerant endosymbiont that nodulates endemic genistoid legumes (Papilionoideae: Genisteae) from the Canary Islands, along with Bradyrhizobium japonicum bv. genistearum, Bradyrhizobium genospecies alpha and Bradyrhizobium genospecies beta.	Highly diverse Bradyrhizobium strains nodulate genistoid legumes (brooms) in the Canary Islands, Morocco, Spain and the Americas. Phylogenetic analyses of ITS, atpD, glnII and recA sequences revealed that these isolates represent at least four distinct evolutionary lineages within the genus, namely Bradyrhizobium japonicum and three unnamed genospecies. DNA-DNA hybridization experiments confirmed that one of the latter represents a new taxonomic species for which the name Bradyrhizobium canariense is proposed. B. canariense populations experience homologous recombination at housekeeping loci, but are sexually isolated from sympatric B. japonicum bv. genistearum strains in soils of the Canary Islands. B. canariense strains are highly acid-tolerant, nodulate diverse legumes in the tribes Genisteae and Loteae, but not Glycine species, whereas acid-sensitive B. japonicum soybean isolates such as USDA 6(T) and USDA 110 do not nodulate genistoid legumes. Based on host-range experiments and phylogenetic analyses of symbiotic nifH and nodC sequences, the biovarieties genistearum and glycinearum for the genistoid legume and soybean isolates, respectively, were proposed. B. canariense bv. genistearum strains display an overlapped host range with B. japonicum bv. genistearum isolates, both sharing monophyletic nifH and nodC alleles, possibly due to the lateral transfer of a conjugative chromosomal symbiotic island across species. B. canariense is the sister species of B. japonicum, as inferred from a maximum-likelihood Bradyrhizobium species phylogeny estimated from congruent glnII+recA sequence partitions, which resolves eight species clades. In addition to the currently described species, this phylogeny uncovered the novel Bradyrhizobium genospecies alpha and beta and the photosynthetic strains as independent evolutionary lineages. The type strain for B. canariense is BTA-1(T) (=ATCC BAA-1002(T)=LMG 22265(T)=CFNE 1008(T)).	2005 Mar	Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; León-Barrios, Milagros; León-Barrios, M; León-Barrios; Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva; Willems, Anne; Willems, A; Willems; Jarabo-Lorenzo, Adriana; Jarabo-Lorenzo, A; Jarabo-Lorenzo; Pérez-Galdona, Ricardo; Pérez-Galdona, R; Pérez-Galdona; Werner, Dietrich; Werner, D; Werner; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
15667294	Function of the Rhizobium etli CFN42 nirK gene in nitrite metabolism.	Rhizobium etli CFN42 is not capable of growing anaerobically with nitrate but it grows with nitrite as a terminal electron acceptor. This bacterium contains the nirK gene encoding the copper-containing Nir (nitrite reductase), which is located on the cryptic plasmid pCFN42f. Mutational analysis has demonstrated that a nirK deficient mutant was not capable of growing under nitrite-respiring conditions. Moreover, microaerobic growth of this mutant was inhibited by the presence of nitrite. Nir activity and nitrite uptake were highly diminished in a nirK mutant, compared with the wild-type levels after incubation under anaerobic conditions. Our results suggest that the copper-containing Nir may have both a respiratory and a nitrite-detoxifying role in R. etli.	2005 Feb	Bueno, E; Bueno, E; Bueno; Gómez-Hernández, N; Gómez-Hernández, N; Gómez-Hernández; Girard, L; Girard, L; Girard; Bedmar, E J; Bedmar, EJ; Bedmar; Delgado, M J; Delgado, MJ; Delgado	Biochem Soc Trans
15608210	EcoCyc: a comprehensive database resource for Escherichia coli.	The EcoCyc database (http://EcoCyc.org/) is a comprehensive source of information on the biology of the prototypical model organism Escherichia coli K12. The mission for EcoCyc is to contain both computable descriptions of, and detailed comments describing, all genes, proteins, pathways and molecular interactions in E.coli. Through ongoing manual curation, extensive information such as summary comments, regulatory information, literature citations and evidence types has been extracted from 8862 publications and added to Version 8.5 of the EcoCyc database. The EcoCyc database can be accessed through a World Wide Web interface, while the downloadable Pathway Tools software and data files enable computational exploration of the data and provide enhanced querying capabilities that web interfaces cannot support. For example, EcoCyc contains carefully curated information that can be used as training sets for bioinformatics prediction of entities such as promoters, operons, genetic networks, transcription factor binding sites, metabolic pathways, functionally related genes, protein complexes and protein-ligand interactions.	2005 Jan	Keseler, Ingrid M; Keseler, IM; Keseler; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Ingraham, John; Ingraham, J; Ingraham; Paley, Suzanne; Paley, S; Paley; Paulsen, Ian T; Paulsen, IT; Paulsen; Peralta-Gil, Martín; Peralta-Gil, M; Peralta-Gil; Karp, Peter D; Karp, PD; Karp	Nucleic Acids Res
17061545	[Evolution and phylogeny of rhizobia].	Nitrogen fixation an ancient process that may is have originated in the archaean Eon under the primitive atmosphere anoxygenic conditions. Diazotrophy is an exclusive process of prokaryotes, only Euryarchaeota and 6 of 54 Bacteria phyla have diazotrophs lineages. Some of them coevolved with flowering plants for the establishment of molecular bases of a mutualistic symbiosis relationship. In rhizobia, the nitrogen fixation occurs inside the nodules, special structures on the roots or stems of legumes. Nodule organogenesis starts with the bacterial nodulation factors (Nod factors) codified in large plasmids or symbiotic islands in the bacterial genomes. Nodulation genes had more recent origin than the nitrogen fixation ones because the origin of the nod gene is associated with the origin of the hosts. The 16S rRNA phylogeny groups rhizobia in 7 genuses of the alpha-Proteobacteria: Bradyrhizobium, Mesorhizobium, Rhizobium, Sinorhizobium, Methylobacterium and Devosia, and two genuses recently described in f-Proteobacteria: Burkholderia and Wautersia. The phylogenies obtained with other chromosomal genes are similar at the genus level, but it is incongruent with the symbiotic gene (nif & nod) phylogeny, because horizontal gene transfer has allowed their evolution in function to the legume host fitness.	2005 Jan-Jun	Lloret, Lourdes; Lloret, L; Lloret; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Rev Latinoam Microbiol
15680508	Modular analysis of the transcriptional regulatory network of E. coli.	The transcriptional network of Escherichia coli is currently the best-understood regulatory network of a single cell. Motivated by statistical evidence, suggesting a hierarchical modular architecture in this network, we identified eight modules with well-defined physiological functions. These modules were identified by a clustering approach, using the shortest path to trace regulatory relationships across genes in the network. We report the type (feed forward and bifan) and distribution of motifs between and within modules. Feed-forward motifs tend to be embedded within modules, whereas bi-fan motifs tend to link modules, supporting the notion of a hierarchical network with defined functional modules.	2005 Jan	Resendis-Antonio, Osbaldo; Resendis-Antonio, O; Resendis-Antonio; Freyre-González, Julio A; Freyre-González, JA; Freyre-González; Menchaca-Méndez, Ricardo; Menchaca-Méndez, R; Menchaca-Méndez; Gutiérrez-Ríos, Rosa M; Gutiérrez-Ríos, RM; Gutiérrez-Ríos; Martínez-Antonio, Agustino; Martínez-Antonio, A; Martínez-Antonio; Avila-Sánchez, Cristhian; Avila-Sánchez, C; Avila-Sánchez; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Trends Genet
15640222	Non-Frankia actinomycetes isolated from surface-sterilized roots of Casuarina equisetifolia fix nitrogen.	Based on partial 16S sequences, we previously described a novel group of nonsymbiotic, acetylene reduction activity-positive actinomycetes which were isolated from surface-sterilized roots of Casuarina equisetifolia growing in Mexico. An amplified rRNA restriction analysis confirmed that these actinomycetes are distinct from Frankia, a finding substantiated by a 16S rRNA gene phylogenetic analysis of two of the Mexican isolates. Further support for these actinomycetes being separate from Frankia comes from the very low DNA-DNA homology that was found. Nevertheless, the Mexican isolates may be diazotrophs based not only on their ability to grow in N-free medium and reduce acetylene to ethylene but also on the results from (15)N isotope dilution analysis and the finding that a nifH gene was PCR amplified. A comparison of the nifH sequences from the various isolates showed that they are closely related to nifH from Frankia; the similarity was 84 to 98% depending on the host specificity group. An analysis of complete 16S rRNA gene sequences demonstrated that the two strains analyzed in detail are most closely related to actinobacteria in the Thermomonosporaceae and the Micromonosporaceae.	2005 Jan	Valdés, María; Valdés, M; Valdés; Pérez, Néstor-Octavio; Pérez, NO; Pérez; Estrada-de Los Santos, Paulina; Estrada-de Los Santos, P; Estrada-de Los Santos; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Peña-Cabriales, Juan José; Peña-Cabriales, JJ; Peña-Cabriales; Normand, Philippe; Normand, P; Normand; Hirsch, Ann M; Hirsch, AM; Hirsch	Appl Environ Microbiol
15579380	Population genetics and phylogenetic inference in bacterial molecular systematics: the roles of migration and recombination in Bradyrhizobium species cohesion and delineation.	A combination of population genetics and phylogenetic inference methods was used to delineate Bradyrhizobium species and to uncover the evolutionary forces acting at the population-species interface of this bacterial genus. Maximum-likelihood gene trees for atpD, glnII, recA, and nifH loci were estimated for diverse strains from all but one of the named Bradyrhizobium species, and three unnamed "genospecies," including photosynthetic isolates. Topological congruence and split decomposition analyses of the three housekeeping loci are consistent with a model of frequent homologous recombination within but not across lineages, whereas strong evidence was found for the consistent lateral gene transfer across lineages of the symbiotic (auxiliary) nifH locus, which grouped strains according to their hosts and not by their species assignation. A well resolved Bayesian species phylogeny was estimated from partially congruent glnII+recA sequences, which is highly consistent with the actual taxonomic scheme of the genus. Population-level analyses of isolates from endemic Canarian genistoid legumes based on REP-PCR genomic fingerprints, allozyme and DNA polymorphism analyses revealed a non-clonal and slightly epidemic population structure for B. canariense isolates of Canarian and Moroccan origin, uncovered recombination and migration as significant evolutionary forces providing the species with internal cohesiveness, and demonstrated its significant genetic differentiation from B. japonicum, its sister species, despite their sympatry and partially overlapped ecological niches. This finding provides strong evidence for the existence of well delineated species in the bacterial world. The results and approaches used herein are discussed in the context of bacterial species concepts and the evolutionary ecology of (brady)rhizobia.	2005 Jan	Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva; Werner, Dietrich; Werner, D; Werner; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Mol Phylogenet Evol
15608293	TRACTOR_DB: a database of regulatory networks in gamma-proteobacterial genomes.	Experimental data on the Escherichia coli transcriptional regulatory system has been used in the past years to predict new regulatory elements (promoters, transcription factors (TFs), TFs' binding sites and operons) within its genome. As more genomes of gamma-proteobacteria are being sequenced, the prediction of these elements in a growing number of organisms has become more feasible, as a step towards the study of how different bacteria respond to environmental changes at the level of transcriptional regulation. In this work, we present TRACTOR_DB (TRAnscription FaCTORs' predicted binding sites in prokaryotic genomes), a relational database that contains computational predictions of new members of 74 regulons in 17 gamma-proteobacterial genomes. For these predictions we used a comparative genomics approach regarding which several proof-of-principle articles for large regulons have been published. TRACTOR_DB may be currently accessed at http://www.bioinfo.cu/Tractor_DB, http://www.tractor.lncc.br/ or at http://www.cifn.unam.mx/Computational_Genomics/tractorDB. Contact Email id is tractor@cifn.unam.mx.	2005 Jan	González, Abel D; González, AD; González; Espinosa, Vladimir; Espinosa, V; Espinosa; Vasconcelos, Ana T; Vasconcelos, AT; Vasconcelos; Pérez-Rueda, Ernesto; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
15666246	How are gene sequence analyses modifying bacterial taxonomy? The case of Klebsiella.	Bacterial names are continually being changed in order to more adequately describe natural groups (the units of microbial diversity) and their relationships. The problems in Klebsiella taxonomy are illustrative and common to other bacterial genera. Like other bacteria, Klebsiella spp. were isolated long ago, when methods to identify and classify bacteria were limited. However, recently developed molecular approaches have led to taxonomical revisions in several cases or to sound proposals of novel species.	2004 Dec	Martínez, Julio; Martínez, J; Martínez; Martínez, Lucía; Martínez, L; Martínez; Rosenblueth, Monica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Silva, Jesús; Silva, J; Silva; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Int Microbiol
15556475	Phylogenetic distribution of DNA-binding transcription factors in bacteria and archaea.	We have addressed the distribution and abundance of 75 transcription factor (TF) families in complete genomes from 90 different bacterial and archaeal species. We found that the proportion of TFs increases with genome size. The deficit of TFs in some genomes might be compensated by the presence of proteins organizing and compacting DNA, such as histone-like proteins. Nine families are represented in all the bacteria and archaea we analyzed, whereas 17 families are specific to bacteria, providing evidence for regulon specialization at an early stage of evolution between the bacterial and archeal lineages. Ten of the 17 families identified in bacteria belong exclusively to the proteobacteria defining a specific signature for this taxonomical group. In bacteria, 10 families are lost mostly in intracellular pathogens and endosymbionts, while 9 families seem to have been horizontally transferred to archaea. The winged helix-turn-helix (HTH) is by far the most abundant structure (motif) in prokaryotes, and might have been the earliest HTH motif to appear as shown by its distribution and abundance in both bacterial and archaeal cellular domains. Horizontal gene transfer and lineage-specific gene losses suggest a progressive elimination of TFs in the course of archaeal and bacterial evolution. This analysis provides a framework for discussing the selective forces directing the evolution of the transcriptional machinery in prokaryotes.	2004 Dec	Pérez-Rueda, Ernesto; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Segovia, Lorenzo; Segovia, L; Segovia	Comput Biol Chem
15547262	The recombination genes addAB are not restricted to gram-positive bacteria: genetic analysis of the recombination initiation enzymes RecF and AddAB in Rhizobium etli.	Single-strand gaps (SSGs) and double-strand breaks (DSBs) are the major initiation sites for recombination. In bacteria, the SSGs are repaired by RecFOR, while the DSBs are processed by RecBCD in gram-negative bacteria and AddAB in gram-positive bacteria. Unexpectedly, instead of recBCD genes, the addAB genes were found in members of the alpha-proteobacteria group (gram negative). Taking Rhizobium etli as a model, the role of recF and addAB genes in homologous recombination and repair of damaged DNA was evaluated. Inactivation of either recF or addA provoked strong sensitivity to UV radiation and mitomycin C, while an additive effect was observed in the recF-addA mutant. The DSBs generated by nalidixic acid caused low viability only in the addA mutant. The recombination frequency of large and small plasmids was reduced in the recF mutant (24- and 36-fold, respectively), whereas a slight decrease (threefold) in the addA mutant was observed. Moreover, an additive effect (47- and 90-fold, respectively) was observed in the double mutant, but it was not as dramatic as that in a recA mutant. Interestingly, the frequency of deletion and Campbell-type recombination was slightly affected in either single or double mutants. These results suggest that another pathway exists that allows plasmid and Campbell-type recombination in the absence of recF and addA genes.	2004 Dec	Zuñiga-Castillo, Jacobo; Zuñiga-Castillo, J; Zuñiga-Castillo; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Martínez-Salazar, Jaime M; Martínez-Salazar, JM; Martínez-Salazar	J Bacteriol
15554980	Two discrete elements are required for the replication of a repABC plasmid: an antisense RNA and a stem-loop structure.	The repABC replicons contain an operon encoding the initiator protein (RepC) and partitioning proteins (RepA and RepB). The latter two proteins negatively regulate the transcription of the operon. In this article we have identified two novel regulatory elements, located within the conserved repB-repC intergenic sequence, which negatively modulate the expression of repC, in plasmid p42d of Rhizobium etli. One of them is a small antisense RNA and the other is a stem-loop structure in the repABC mRNA that occludes the Shine-Dalgarno sequence of repC. According to in vivo and in vitro analyses, the small antisense RNA (57-59 nt) resembles canonical negative regulators of replication because: (i) it is transcribed from a strong constitutive promoter (P2), (ii) the transcript overlaps untranslated region upstream of the RepC coding sequences, (iii) the RNA forms one secondary structure acting as a rho-independent terminator, (iv) the antisense RNA is a strong trans-incompatibility factor and (v) its presence reduces the level of repC expression. Surprisingly, both of these seemingly negative regulators are required for efficient plasmid replication.	2004 Dec	Venkova-Canova, Tatiana; Venkova-Canova, T; Venkova-Canova; Soberón, Nora E; Soberón, NE; Soberón; Ramírez-Romero, Miguel A; Ramírez-Romero, MA; Ramírez-Romero; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	Mol Microbiol
15545451	Burkholderia tropica sp. nov., a novel nitrogen-fixing, plant-associated bacterium.	In an ecological survey of nitrogen-fixing bacteria isolated from the rhizosphere and as endophytes of sugarcane, maize and teosinte plants in Brazil, Mexico and South Africa, a new phylogenetically homogeneous group of N(2)-fixing bacteria was identified within the genus Burkholderia. This polyphasic taxonomic study included microscopic and colony morphology, API 20NE tests and growth on different culture media at different pH and temperatures, as well as carbon source assimilation tests and whole-cell protein pattern analysis. Analysis of 16S rRNA gene sequences showed 99.2-99.9 % similarity within the novel species and 97.2 % similarity to the closest related species, Burkholderia sacchari. The novel species was composed of four distinct amplified 16S rDNA restriction analysis groups. The DNA-DNA reassociation values within the novel species were greater than 70 % and less than 42 % for the closest related species, B. sacchari. Based on these results and on many phenotypic characteristics, a novel N(2)-fixing species is proposed for the genus Burkholderia, Burkholderia tropica sp. nov., with the type strain Ppe8(T) (=ATCC BAA-831(T)=LMG 22274(T)=DSM 15359(T)). B. tropica was isolated from plants grown in geographical regions with climates ranging from temperate subhumid to hot humid.	2004 Nov	Reis, V M; Reis, VM; Reis; Santos, P Estrada-de Los; Santos, PEL; Santos; Tenorio-Salgado, S; Tenorio-Salgado, S; Tenorio-Salgado; Vogel, J; Vogel, J; Vogel; Stoffels, M; Stoffels, M; Stoffels; Guyon, S; Guyon, S; Guyon; Mavingui, P; Mavingui, P; Mavingui; Baldani, V L D; Baldani, VLD; Baldani; Schmid, M; Schmid, M; Schmid; Baldani, J I; Baldani, JI; Baldani; Balandreau, J; Balandreau, J; Balandreau; Hartmann, A; Hartmann, A; Hartmann; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
15612628	Phylogenetic relationships of rhizobia based on citrate synthase gene sequences.	Partial nucleotide sequences of the citrate synthase (gltA) gene from different rhizobia genera were determined. Tree topologies based on this housekeeping gene were similar to that obtained using 16S rRNA sequences. However gltA appeared to be more reliable at determining phylogenetic relationships of closely related taxa. We propose gltA sequences as an additional tool to be used in molecular phylogenetic studies.	2004 Nov	Hernández-Lucas, Ismael; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Rogel-Hernández, Marco Antonio; Rogel-Hernández, MA; Rogel-Hernández; Segovia, Lorenzo; Segovia, L; Segovia; Rojas-Jiménez, Keilor; Rojas-Jiménez, K; Rojas-Jiménez; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
15516565	Transfer of the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium etli CFN42 requires cointegration with p42a, which may be mediated by site-specific recombination.	Plasmid p42a from Rhizobium etli CFN42 is self-transmissible and indispensable for conjugative transfer of the symbiotic plasmid (pSym). Most pSym transconjugants also inherit p42a. pSym transconjugants that lack p42a always contain recombinant pSyms, which we designated RpSyms*. RpSyms* do not contain some pSym segments and instead have p42a sequences, including the replication and transfer regions. These novel recombinant plasmids are compatible with wild-type pSym, incompatible with p42a, and self-transmissible. The symbiotic features of derivatives simultaneously containing a wild-type pSym and an RpSym* were analyzed. Structural analysis of 10 RpSyms* showed that 7 shared one of the two pSym-p42a junctions. Sequencing of this common junction revealed a 53-bp region that was 90% identical in pSym and p42a, including a 5-bp central region flanked by 9- to 11-bp inverted repeats reminiscent of bacterial and phage attachment sites. A gene encoding an integrase-like protein (intA) was localized downstream of the attachment site on p42a. Mutation or the absence of intA abolished pSym transfer from a recA mutant donor. Complementation with the wild-type intA gene restored transfer of pSym. We propose that pSym-p42a cointegration is required for pSym transfer; cointegration may be achieved either through homologous recombination among large reiterated sequences or through IntA-mediated site-specific recombination between the attachment sites. Cointegrates formed through the site-specific system but resolved through RecA-dependent recombination or vice versa generate RpSyms*. A site-specific recombination system for plasmid cointegration is a novel feature of these large plasmids and implies that there is unique regulation which affects the distribution of pSym in nature due to the role of the cointegrate in conjugative transfer.	2004 Nov	Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Tun-Garrido, Cristina; Tun-Garrido, C; Tun-Garrido; García-de los Santos, Alejandro; García-de los Santos, A; García-de los Santos; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero	J Bacteriol
15240837	Successful lateral transfer requires codon usage compatibility between foreign genes and recipient genomes.	We present evidence supporting the notion that codon usage (CU) compatibility between foreign genes and recipient genomes is an important prerequisite to assess the selective advantage of imported functions, and therefore to increase the fixation probability of horizontal gene transfer (HGT) events. This contrasts with the current tendency in research to predict recent HGTs in prokaryotes by assuming that acquired genes generally display poor CU. By looking at the CU level (poor, typical, or rich) exhibited by putative xenologs still resembling their original CU, we found that most alien genes predominantly present typical CU immediately upon introgression, thereby suggesting that the role of CU amelioration in HGT has been overemphasized. In our strategy, we first scanned a representative set of 103 complete prokaryotic genomes for all pairs of candidate xenologs (exported/imported genes) displaying similar CU. We applied additional filtering criteria, including phylogenetic validations, to enhance the reliability of our predictions. Our approach makes no assumptions about the CU of foreign genes being typical or atypical within the recipient genome, thus providing a novel unbiased framework to study the evolutionary dynamics of HGT.	2004 Oct	Medrano-Soto, Arturo; Medrano-Soto, A; Medrano-Soto; Moreno-Hagelsieb, Gabriel; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Christen, J Andrés; Christen, JA; Christen; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Mol Biol Evol
15388727	Classification of the biphenyl- and polychlorinated biphenyl-degrading strain LB400T and relatives as Burkholderia xenovorans sp. nov.	Strain LB400T is the best-studied polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) degrader. This organism has previously been allocated in the genus Burkholderia, since its 16S rRNA gene sequence shows 98.6 % sequence similarity to the type strains of Burkholderia graminis and Burkholderia terricola. A polyphasic study was undertaken to clarify the actual taxonomic position of this biotechnologically important organism and of two strains, one recovered from a blood culture vial and one from a coffee plant rhizosphere, both of which resembled strain LB400T in their whole-cell protein patterns. DNA-DNA hybridization experiments revealed that the three strains represented a single novel species, for which the name Burkholderia xenovorans sp. nov. is proposed. Strains of this novel species can be differentiated phenotypically from nearly all other Burkholderia species by their inability to assimilate L-arabinose. The whole-cell fatty acid profile of B. xenovorans strains is consistent with their classification in the genus Burkholderia, with 18 : 1omega7c, 16 : 1omega7c, 16 : 0, 14 : 0 3OH, 16 : 0 3OH, 17 : 0 cyclo and 14 : 0 being the most abundant fatty acids. The G + C content of the species varies between 62.4 and 62.9 mol%. The type strain of B. xenovorans is LB400T (= LMG 21463T = CCUG 46959T = NRRL B-18064T).	2004 Sep	Goris, Johan; Goris, J; Goris; De Vos, Paul; De Vos, P; De Vos; Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Park, Joonhong; Park, J; Park; Falsen, Enevold; Falsen, E; Falsen; Quensen, John F; Quensen, JF; Quensen; Tiedje, James M; Tiedje, JM; Tiedje; Vandamme, Peter; Vandamme, P; Vandamme	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
15341653	Identification of a gene required for the formation of lyso-ornithine lipid, an intermediate in the biosynthesis of ornithine-containing lipids.	Under phosphate-limiting conditions, some bacteria replace their membrane phospholipids by lipids not containing any phosphorus. One of these phosphorus-free lipids is an ornithine-containing lipid (OL) that is widespread among eubacteria. In earlier work, we had identified a gene (olsA) required for OL biosynthesis that probably encodes an O-acyltransferase using acyl-acyl carrier protein (acyl-AcpP) as an acyl donor and that converts lyso-ornithine lipid into OL. We now report on a second gene (olsB) required for OL biosynthesis that is needed for the incorporation of radiolabelled ornithine into OL. Overexpression of OlsB in an olsA-deficient mutant of Sinorhizobium (Rhizobium) meliloti leads to the transient accumulation of lyso-ornithine lipid, the biosynthetic intermediate of OL biosynthesis. Overexpression of OlsB in Escherichia coli is sufficient to cause the in vivo formation of lyso-ornithine lipid in this organism and is the cause for a 3-hydroxyacyl-AcpP-dependent acyltransferase activity forming lyso-ornithine lipid from ornithine. These results demonstrate that OlsB is required for the first step of OL biosynthesis, in which ornithine is N-acylated with a 3-hydroxy-fatty acyl residue in order to obtain lyso-ornithine lipid. OL formation in a wild-type S. meliloti is increased upon growth under phosphate-limiting conditions. Expression of OlsB from a broad host range vector leads to the constitutive formation of relatively high amounts of OL (12-14% of total membrane lipids) independently of whether strains are grown in the presence of low or high concentrations of phosphate, suggesting that in S. meliloti the formation of OlsB is usually limiting for the amount of OL formed in this organism. Open reading frames homologous to OlsA and OlsB were identified in many eubacteria and although in S. meliloti the olsB and olsA gene are 14 kb apart, in numerous other bacteria they form an operon.	2004 Sep	Gao, Jun-Lian; Gao, JL; Gao; Weissenmayer, Barbara; Weissenmayer, B; Weissenmayer; Taylor, Adrian M; Taylor, AM; Taylor; Thomas-Oates, Jane; Thomas-Oates, J; Thomas-Oates; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	Mol Microbiol
15317780	Identification of functional mob regions in Rhizobium etli: evidence for self-transmissibility of the symbiotic plasmid pRetCFN42d.	An approach originally designed to identify functional origins of conjugative transfer (oriT or mob) in a bacterial genome (J. A. Herrera-Cervera, J. M. Sanjuán-Pinilla, J. Olivares, and J. Sanjuán, J. Bacteriol. 180:4583-4590, 1998) was modified to improve its reliability and prevent selection of undesired false mob clones. By following this modified approach, we were able to identify two functional mob regions in the genome of Rhizobium etli CFN42. One corresponds to the recently characterized transfer region of the nonsymbiotic, self-transmissible plasmid pRetCFN42a (C. Tun-Garrido, P. Bustos, V. González, and S. Brom, J. Bacteriol. 185:1681-1692, 2003), whereas the second mob region belongs to the symbiotic plasmid pRetCFN42d. The new transfer region identified contains a putative oriT and a typical conjugative (tra) gene cluster organization. Although pRetCFN42d had not previously been shown to be self-transmissible, mobilization of cosmids containing this tra region required the presence of a wild-type pRetCFN42d in the donor cell; the presence of multiple copies of this mob region in CFN42 also promoted conjugal transfer of the Sym plasmid pRetCFN42d. The overexpression of a small open reading frame, named yp028, located downstream of the putative relaxase gene traA, appeared to be responsible for promoting the conjugal transfer of the R. etli pSym under laboratory conditions. This yp028-dependent conjugal transfer required a wild-type pRetCFN42d traA gene. Our results suggest for the first time that the R. etli symbiotic plasmid is self-transmissible and that its transfer is subject to regulation. In wild-type CFN42, pRetCFN42d tra gene expression appears to be insufficient to promote plasmid transfer under standard laboratory conditions; gene yp028 may play some role in the activation of conjugal transfer in response to as-yet-unknown environmental conditions.	2004 Sep	Pérez-Mendoza, Daniel; Pérez-Mendoza, D; Pérez-Mendoza; Domínguez-Ferreras, Ana; Domínguez-Ferreras, A; Domínguez-Ferreras; Muñoz, Socorro; Muñoz, S; Muñoz; Soto, María José; Soto, MJ; Soto; Olivares, José; Olivares, J; Olivares; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Herrera-Cervera, José A; Herrera-Cervera, JA; Herrera-Cervera; Sanjuán, Juan; Sanjuán, J; Sanjuán	J Bacteriol
19712296	Sequence based data supports a single Nostoc strain in individual coralloid roots of cycads.	The genetic diversity of cyanobacteria associated with cycads was examined using the tRNA(Leu) (UAA) intron as a genetic marker. Coralloid roots of both natural populations of the cycad Macrozamia riedlei (Fischer ex Gaudichaud-Beaupré) C.A. Gardner growing in Perth, Australia and cycads growing in greenhouses, also in Perth, were used and their respective cyanobionts analyzed. Several Nostoc strains were found to be involved in this symbiosis, both in natural populations and greenhouse-originated cycads. However, only one strain was present in individual coralloid roots and in individual plants, even when analyzing different coralloid roots from the same plant. Moreover, when examining plants growing close to each other (female plants and their respective offspring) the same cyanobacterium was consistently present in the different coralloid roots. Whether this reflects a selective mechanisms or merely the availability of Nostoc strains remains to be ascertained. The high cyanobacterial diversity in coralloid roots of cycads revealed by PCR fingerprinting is, therefore, contested. In this study, the potential problems of using different methods (e.g., PCR fingerprinting) to study the genetic diversity of symbiotic cyanobacteria, is also addressed.	2004 Sep	Costa, José-Luis; Costa, JL; Costa; Romero, Esperanza Martínez; Romero, EM; Romero; Lindblad, Peter; Lindblad, P; Lindblad	FEMS Microbiol Ecol
15280286	Burkholderia unamae sp. nov., an N2-fixing rhizospheric and endophytic species.	It was shown recently that the genus Burkholderia is rich in N2-fixing bacteria that are associated with plants. A group of these diazotrophic isolates with identical or very similar 16S rDNA restriction patterns [designated amplified rDNA restriction analysis (ARDRA) genotypes 13, 14 and 15] was selected and a polyphasic taxonomic study was performed, which included new isolates that were recovered from rhizospheres, rhizoplanes or internal tissues of maize, sugarcane and coffee plants. Morphological, physiological and biochemical features, as well as multi-locus enzyme electrophoresis profiles and whole-cell protein patterns, of 20 strains were analysed. In addition, analysis of cellular fatty acid profiles, 16S rDNA sequence analysis and DNA-DNA reassociation experiments were performed with representative strains. The taxonomic data indicated that the strains analysed belong to a novel diazotrophic Burkholderia species, for which the name Burkholderia unamae sp. nov. is proposed. Strain MTl-641T (=ATCC BAA-744T=CIP 107921T), isolated from the rhizosphere of maize, was designated as the type strain. B. unamae was found as an endophyte of plants grown in regions with climates ranging from semi-hot subhumid to hot humid, but not from plants grown in regions with semi-hot or hot dry climates. Moreover, B. unamae was isolated from rhizospheres and plants growing in soils with pH values in the range 4.5-7.1, but not from soils with pH values higher than 7.5.	2004 Jul	Caballero-Mellado, Jesús; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Martínez-Aguilar, Lourdes; Martínez-Aguilar, L; Martínez-Aguilar; Paredes-Valdez, Guadalupe; Paredes-Valdez, G; Paredes-Valdez; Santos, Paulina Estrada-de Los; Santos, PEL; Santos	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
15184121	Engineering the nifH promoter region and abolishing poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate accumulation in Rhizobium etli enhance nitrogen fixation in symbiosis with Phaseolus vulgaris.	Rhizobium etli, as well as some other rhizobia, presents nitrogenase reductase (nifH) gene reiterations. Several R. etli strains studied in this laboratory showed a unique organization and contained two complete nifHDK operons (copies a and b) and a truncated nifHD operon (copy c). Expression analysis of lacZ fusion demonstrated that copies a and b in strain CFN42 are transcribed at lower levels than copy c, although this copy has no discernible role during nitrogen fixation. To increase nitrogenase production, we constructed a chimeric nifHDK operon regulated by the strong nifHc promoter sequence and expressed it in symbiosis with the common bean plant (Phaseolus vulgaris), either cloned on a stably inherited plasmid or incorporated into the symbiotic plasmid (pSym). Compared with the wild-type strain, strains with the nitrogenase overexpression construction assayed in greenhouse experiments had, increased nitrogenase activity (58% on average), increased plant weight (32% on average), increased nitrogen content in plants (15% at 32 days postinoculation), and most importantly, higher seed yield (36% on average), higher nitrogen content (25%), and higher nitrogen yield (72% on average) in seeds. Additionally, expression of the chimeric nifHDK operon in a poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate-negative R. etli strain produced an additive effect in enhancing symbiosis. To our knowledge, this is the first report of increased seed yield and nutritional content in the common bean obtained by using only the genetic material already present in Rhizobium.	2004 Jun	Peralta, Humberto; Peralta, H; Peralta; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Salazar, Emmanuel; Salazar, E; Salazar; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Palacios, Rafael; Palacios, R; Palacios; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	Appl Environ Microbiol
15109827	Incompatibility and the partitioning site of the repABC basic replicon of the symbiotic plasmid from Rhizobium etli.	The basic replicon of the symbiotic plasmid (p42d) of Rhizobium etli CE3 is constituted by the repABC operon. Whereas RepC is essential for plasmid replication, RepA and RepB are involved in plasmid partitioning. Three incompatibility regions have been previously identified in this plasmid: the first one encodes RepA, a partitioning protein that also down-regulates the repABC transcription. The second region is situated within the repB-repC intergenic sequence (inc(alpha)), and the last one, inc(beta), is located in a 502 bp EcoRI fragment spanning the last 72-bp of the coding region of repC and the following downstream sequence. In this paper we show that: (1) The inc(beta) region is required for plasmid partitioning. (2) A 16-bp palindrome sequence, located 40 bp downstream of the repC gene of plasmid p42d, is necessary and sufficient to induce incompatibility towards the parental plasmid, and accounts for all the incompatibility properties of this region (inc(beta)). (3). The palindrome is the DNA target site for RepB binding. With these findings we propose that inc(beta) contains the partitioning site (par site) of the basic replicon of plasmid p42d, and that the 16-bp palindrome is the core sequence to nucleate the RepB binding.	2004 May	Soberón, Nora; Soberón, N; Soberón; Venkova-Canova, Tatiana; Venkova-Canova, T; Venkova-Canova; Ramírez-Romero, Miguel A; Ramírez-Romero, MA; Ramírez-Romero; Téllez-Sosa, Juan; Téllez-Sosa, J; Téllez-Sosa; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	Plasmid
15024554	Rhizobium etli maize populations and their competitiveness for root colonization.	Rhizobium etli, which normally forms nitrogen-fixing nodules on Phaseolus vulgaris (common bean), is a natural maize endophyte. The genetic diversity of R. etli strains from bulk soil, bean nodules, the maize rhizosphere, the maize root, and inside stem tissue in traditional fields where maize is intercropped with P. vulgaris-beans was analyzed. Based on plasmid profiles and alloenzymes, it was determined that several R. etli types were preferentially encountered as putative maize endophytes. Some of these strains from maize were more competitive maize-root colonizers than other R. etli strains from the rhizosphere or from bean nodules. The dominant and highly competitive strain Ch24-10 was the most tolerant to 6-methoxy-2-benzoxazolinone (MBOA), a maize antimicrobial compound that is inhibitory to some bacteria and fungi. The R. tropici strain CIAT899, successfully used as inoculant of P. vulgaris, was also found to be a competitive maize endophyte in inoculation experiments.	2004 May	Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Arch Microbiol
15025998	Proteomics of the venom from the Amazonian scorpion Tityus cambridgei and the role of prolines on mass spectrometry analysis of toxins.	Scorpion venom are complex mixtures of peptides, known to cause impairment of ion-channel function in biological membranes. This report describes the separation of approximately 60 different components by high performance liquid chromatography and the characterization by Edman degradation and mass spectrometry of 26 peptides from the soluble venom of the Amazonian scorpion Tityus cambridgei. One of these peptides, named Tc48a, was fully characterized. It contains 65 amino acid residues, the C-terminal residue is amidated and it affects Na(+)-channels with a K(d) of about 82 nM. Furthermore, this report shows the thermo-instability of scorpion toxins subjected to electron spray ionization-mass spectrometry (ESI-MS). When a proline residue is located near the N-terminal region of the toxin, not stabilized by disulfide bridges, artificial components are generated by the mass spectrometer conditions, due to the cleavage of the peptide bond at the proline positions. This phenomenon was confirmed by using four model proteins (variable regions of immunoglobulins) studied by ESI-MS and matrix assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF)/MS.	2004 Apr	Batista, Cesar V F; Batista, CV; Batista; del Pozo, Luis; del Pozo, L; del Pozo; Zamudio, Fernando Z; Zamudio, FZ; Zamudio; Contreras, Sandra; Contreras, S; Contreras; Becerril, Baltazar; Becerril, B; Becerril; Wanke, Enzo; Wanke, E; Wanke; Possani, Lourival D; Possani, LD; Possani	J Chromatogr B Analyt Technol Biomed Life Sci
15019498	A new method of solution for the occupancy problem and its application to operon size prediction.	The problem of estimating the expected number of transcription units containing a specific number of genes arises in the context of operon size prediction in prokaryotic genomes, where operons are defined to be transcription units containing two or more genes. It turns out that this problem is identical mathematically to the balls in urns occupancy problem in probability theory. In that problem, a fixed number of indistinguishable balls are randomly placed in a known number of distinguishable urns, subject to the restriction that no urns may remain empty, and an estimate is desired for the expected number of urns containing a specific number of balls. In this paper we present a new simple technique for solving the occupancy problem when empty urns are allowed and extend it to the case when each urn must contain the same non-zero minimum number of balls. Treating transcription units as equivalent to urns, and genes as equivalent to balls, we then use that result to solve the problem of estimating the expected number of transcription units that contain a specific number of genes, and then apply that result to predicting the expected number of transcription units present in an entire genome. Since these predictions can be made for any completely sequenced and annotated prokaryotic genome, they provide a starting point for the comparison of regulatory complexity across such genomes.	2004 Apr	Lamboy, W F Warren F; Lamboy, WF; Lamboy; Moreno-Hagelsieb, Gabriel; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb	J Theor Biol
15033534	Distribution of minigenes in the bacteriophage lambda chromosome.	The bar loci in the chromosome of bacteriophage lambda inhibit phage vegetative growth in bacteria defective for peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase (Pth). Expression of the bar regions results in accumulation of peptidyl-tRNA, inhibition of protein synthesis, and arrest of mutant cell growth. These effects have been ascribed to the expression of two-codon ORFs present in translatable sequences named 'minigenes' in the lambda bar regions. To investigate the nature, frequency, and distribution of minigenes in the phage genome, we conducted a survey of their location in lambda DNA. A short-fragment random genomic DNA library was constructed for the identification of clones inhibitory of Pth-defective cells (bar-like phenotype). Three new bar-like minigenes were identified in the library but only one was on the sense strand and it had a rare initiation codon. This result contrasted with the in silico identification of over a hundred putative minigenes using an ad hoc computer program on both strands of lambda DNA. Unlike bar constructs, most of the toxic constructed clones were also toxic to wild-type bacteria, thus suggesting a different inhibition mechanism. Sequence analysis of these cloned inserts showed that they harbored minigenes, mini-ORFs, gene starts, gene ends, or combinations thereof. Our data suggest that minigene-like sequences may, at least partly, account for toxicity in wild-type cells. We propose that clustering of minigenes at gene ends may play a role in gene expression. Other minigenes identified in silico were non-toxic. It is still an open question what the in vivo function of these and toxic minigenes might be.	2004 Mar	Oviedo, Norma-Angélica; Oviedo, NA; Oviedo; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Guarneros, Gabriel; Guarneros, G; Guarneros	Gene
14996797	Phosphatidylethanolamine is not essential for growth of Sinorhizobium meliloti on complex culture media.	In addition to phosphatidylglycerol (PG), cardiolipin (CL), and phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), Sinorhizobium meliloti also possesses phosphatidylcholine (PC) as a major membrane lipid. The biosynthesis of PC in S. meliloti can occur via two different routes, either via the phospholipid N-methylation pathway, in which PE is methylated three times in order to obtain PC, or via the phosphatidylcholine synthase (Pcs) pathway, in which choline is condensed with CDP-diacylglycerol to obtain PC directly. Therefore, for S. meliloti, PC biosynthesis can occur via PE as an intermediate or via a pathway that is independent of PE, offering the opportunity to uncouple PC biosynthesis from PE biosynthesis. In this study, we investigated the first step of PE biosynthesis in S. meliloti catalyzed by phosphatidylserine synthase (PssA). A sinorhizobial mutant lacking PE was complemented with an S. meliloti gene bank, and the complementing DNA was sequenced. The gene coding for the sinorhizobial phosphatidylserine synthase was identified, and it belongs to the type II phosphatidylserine synthases. Inactivation of the sinorhizobial pssA gene leads to the inability to form PE, and such a mutant shows a greater requirement for bivalent cations than the wild type. A sinorhizobial PssA-deficient mutant possesses only PG, CL, and PC as major membrane lipids after growth on complex medium, but it grows nearly as well as the wild type under such conditions. On minimal medium, however, the PE-deficient mutant shows a drastic growth phenotype that can only partly be rescued by choline supplementation. Therefore, although choline permits Pcs-dependent PC formation in the mutant, it does not restore wild-type-like growth in minimal medium, suggesting that it is not only the lack of PC that leads to this drastic growth phenotype.	2004 Mar	Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; de Rudder, Karel E E; de Rudder, KE; de Rudder; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	J Bacteriol
14766918	Biochemical characterization of a Rhizobium etli monovalent cation-stimulated acyl-coenzyme A carboxylase with a high substrate specificity constant for propionyl-coenzyme A.	Biotin has a profound effect on the metabolism of rhizobia. It is reported here that the activities of the biotin-dependent enzymes acetyl-coenzyme A carboxylase (ACC; EC 6.4.1.2) and propionyl-coenzyme A carboxylase (PCC; EC 6.4.1.3) are present in all species of the five genera comprising the Rhizobiaceae which were examined. Evidence is presented that the ACC and PCC activities detectable in Rhizobium etli extracts are catalysed by a single acyl-coenzyme A carboxylase. The enzyme from R. etli strain 12-53 was purified 478-fold and displayed its highest activity with propionyl-CoA as substrate, with apparent K(m) and V(max) values of 0.064 mM and 2885 nmol min(-1) (mg protein)(-1), respectively. The enzyme carboxylated acetyl-CoA and butyryl-CoA with apparent K(m) values of 0.392 and 0.144 mM, respectively, and V(max) values of 423 and 268 nmol min(-1) (mg protein)(-1), respectively. K(+), or Cs(+) markedly activated the enzyme, which was essentially inactive in their absence. Electrophoretic analysis indicated that the acyl-CoA carboxylase was composed of a 74 kDa biotin-containing alpha subunit and a 45 kDa biotin-free beta subunit, and gel chromatography indicated a total molecular mass of 620 000 Da. The strong kinetic preference of the enzyme for propionyl-CoA is consistent with its participation in an anaplerotic pathway utilizing this substrate.	2004 Feb	Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Araíza, Gisela; Araíza, G; Araíza; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	Microbiology (Reading)
15053318	Klebsiella variicola, a novel species with clinical and plant-associated isolates.	A new Klebsiella species, K. variicola, is proposed on the basis of total DNA-DNA hybridization, on the monophyly observed in the phylogenetic analysis derived from the sequences of rpoB, gyrA, mdh, infB, phoE and nifH genes and on distinct phenotypic traits. The bacteria from this new species seem to be genetically isolated from K. pneumoniae strains, do not ferment adonitol and were obtained from plants (such as banana, rice, sugar cane and maize) and hospitals. The type strain is F2R9T (= ATCC BAA-830T = CFNE 2004T).	2004 Feb	Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Martínez, Lucía; Martínez, L; Martínez; Silva, Jesús; Silva, J; Silva; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
15477389	Conservation of adjacency as evidence of paralogous operons.	Most of the analyses on the conservation of gene order are limited to orthologous genes. However, the organization of genes into operons might also result in the conservation of gene order of paralogous genes. Thus, we sought computational evidence that conservation of gene order of paralogous genes represents another level of conservation of genes in operons. We found that pairs of genes within experimentally characterized operons of Escherichia coli K12 and Bacillus subtilis tend to have more adjacently conserved paralogs than pairs of genes at transcription unit boundaries. The fraction of same strand gene pairs corresponding to conserved paralogs averages 0.07 with a maximum of 0.22 in Borrelia burgdorferi. The use of evidence from the conservation of adjacency of paralogous genes can improve the prediction of operons in E.coli K12 by approximately 0.27 over predictions using conservation of adjacency of orthologous genes alone.	2004	Janga, Sarath Chandra; Janga, SC; Janga; Moreno-Hagelsieb, Gabriel; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb	Nucleic Acids Res
14681419	RegulonDB (version 4.0): transcriptional regulation, operon organization and growth conditions in Escherichia coli K-12.	RegulonDB is the primary database of the major international maintained curation of original literature with experimental knowledge about the elements and interactions of the network of transcriptional regulation in Escherichia coli K-12. This includes mechanistic information about operon organization and their decomposition into transcription units (TUs), promoters and their sigma type, binding sites of specific transcriptional regulators (TRs), their organization into 'regulatory phrases', active and inactive conformations of TRs, as well as terminators and ribosome binding sites. The database is complemented with clearly marked computational predictions of TUs, promoters and binding sites of TRs. The current version has been expanded to include information beyond specific mechanisms aimed at gathering different growth conditions and the associated induced and/or repressed genes. RegulonDB is now linked with Swiss-Prot, with microarray databases, and with a suite of programs to analyze and visualize microarray experiments. We provide a summary of the biological knowledge contained in RegulonDB and describe the major changes in the design of the database. RegulonDB can be accessed on the web at the URL: http://www.cifn.unam.mx/Computational_Biology/regulondb/.	2004 Jan	Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Martínez-Antonio, Agustino; Martínez-Antonio, A; Martínez-Antonio; Díaz-Peredo, Edgar; Díaz-Peredo, E; Díaz-Peredo; Sánchez-Solano, Fabiola; Sánchez-Solano, F; Sánchez-Solano; Peralta-Gil, Martín; Peralta-Gil, M; Peralta-Gil; Garcia-Alonso, Delfino; Garcia-Alonso, D; Garcia-Alonso; Jiménez-Jacinto, Verónica; Jiménez-Jacinto, V; Jiménez-Jacinto; Santos-Zavaleta, Alberto; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Bonavides-Martínez, César; Bonavides-Martínez, C; Bonavides-Martínez; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
14708114	Environmental conditions and transcriptional regulation in Escherichia coli: a physiological integrative approach.	Bacteria develop a number of devices for sensing, responding, and adapting to different environmental conditions. Understanding within a genomic perspective how the transcriptional machinery of bacteria is modulated, as a response for changing conditions, is a major challenge for biologists. Knowledge of which genes are turned on or turned off under specific conditions is essential for our understanding of cell behavior. In this study we describe how the information pertaining to gene expression and associated growth conditions (even with very little knowledge of the associated regulatory mechanisms) is gathered from the literature and incorporated into RegulonDB, a database on transcriptional regulation and operon organization in E. coli. The link between growth conditions, signal transduction, and transcriptional regulation is modeled in the database in a simple format that highlights biological relevant information. As far as we know, there is no other database that explicitly clarifies the effect of environmental conditions on gene transcription. We discuss how this knowledge constitutes a benchmark that will impact future research aimed at integration of regulatory responses in the cell; for instance, analysis of microarrays, predicting culture behavior in biotechnological processes, and comprehension of dynamics of regulatory networks. This integrated knowledge will contribute to the future goal of modeling the behavior of E. coli as an entire cell. The RegulonDB database can be accessed on the web at the URL: http://www.cifn.unam.mx/Computational_Biology/regulondb/.	2003 Dec	Martínez-Antonio, Agustino; Martínez-Antonio, A; Martínez-Antonio; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Gutiérrez-Ríos, Rosa María; Gutiérrez-Ríos, RM; Gutiérrez-Ríos; Jiménez-Jacinto, Verónica; Jiménez-Jacinto, V; Jiménez-Jacinto; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Biotechnol Bioeng
14627810	Conservation of DNA curvature signals in regulatory regions of prokaryotic genes.	DNA curvature plays a well-characterized role in many transcriptional regulation mechanisms. We present evidence for the conservation of curvature signals in putative regulatory regions of several archaeal and eubacterial genomes. Genes with highly curved upstream regions were identified in orthologous groups, based on the annotations of the Cluster of Orthologous Groups of proteins (COG) database. COGs possessing a significant number of genes with curvature signals were analyzed, and conserved properties were found in several cases. Curvature signals related to regulatory sites, previously described in single organisms, were located in a broad spectrum of bacterial genomes. Global regulatory proteins, such as HU, IHF and FIS, known to bind to curved DNA and to be autoregulated, were found to present conserved DNA curvature signals in their regulatory regions, emphasizing the fact that structural parameters of the DNA molecule are conserved elements in the process of transcriptional regulation of some systems. It is currently an open question whether these diverse systems are part of an integrated global regulatory response in different microorganisms.	2003 Dec	Jáuregui, Ruy; Jáuregui, R; Jáuregui; Abreu-Goodger, Cei; Abreu-Goodger, C; Abreu-Goodger; Moreno-Hagelsieb, Gabriel; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Merino, Enrique; Merino, E; Merino	Nucleic Acids Res
14576977	Diverse Mesorhizobium plurifarium populations native to Mexican soils.	Forty-six Mesorhizobium strains associated with the leguminous plants Leucaena leucocephala and Sesbania herbacea in an uncultivated Mexican field were characterized using a polyphasic approach. The strains were identified as Mesorhizobium plurifarium based upon the close relationships with the reference strains for this species in PCR-based restriction fragment length polymorphism analyses, sequencing of 16S rRNA genes, multilocus enzyme electrophoresis, and DNA-DNA hybridization. Although the strains isolated from both plants formed the same group in multilocus enzyme electrophoresis and cross-nodulations were observed in the laboratory, different electrophoretic types were obtained from the two plants grown in natural soils, indicating the existence of a preferable association between the plants and the rhizobia. The M. plurifarium strains from Mexico and the reference strains from Africa and Brazil formed different phenotypic clusters in a numerical taxonomy. The Mexican strains did not grow at 37 degrees C and were sensitive to salty-alkaline conditions, while the reference strains from Africa and Brazil grew at 42 degrees C and were more resistant to salty-alkaline conditions. These results demonstrate that both the plants and environmental factors affected the evolution of rhizobia and that the Mexican strains had adapted to the neutral soils and the cool climate where they were isolated.	2003 Dec	Wang, En Tao; Wang, ET; Wang; Kan, Feng Ling; Kan, FL; Kan; Tan, Zhi Yuan; Tan, ZY; Tan; Toledo, Ivonne; Toledo, I; Toledo; Chen, Wen Xin; Chen, WX; Chen; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Arch Microbiol
14663079	Pathways for phosphatidylcholine biosynthesis in bacteria.	Phosphatidylcholine (PC) is the major membrane-forming phospholipid in eukaryotes with important structural and signalling functions. Although many prokaryotes lack PC, it can be found in significant amounts in membranes of rather diverse bacteria. Two pathways for PC biosynthesis are known in bacteria, the methylation pathway and the phosphatidylcholine synthase (PCS) pathway. In the methylation pathway, phosphatidylethanolamine is methylated three times to yield PC, in reactions catalysed by one or several phospholipid N-methyltransferases (PMTs). In the PCS pathway, choline is condensed directly with CDP-diacylglyceride to form PC in a reaction catalysed by PCS. Using cell-free extracts, it was demonstrated that Sinorhizobium meliloti, Agrobacterium tumefaciens, Rhizobium leguminosarum, Bradyrhizobium japonicum, Mesorhizobium loti and Legionella pneumophila have both PMT and PCS activities. In addition, Rhodobacter sphaeroides has PMT activity and Brucella melitensis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Borrelia burgdorferi have PCS activities. Genes from M. loti and L. pneumophila encoding a Pmt or a Pcs activity and the genes from P. aeruginosa and Borrelia burgdorferi responsible for Pcs activity have been identified. Based on these functional assignments and on genomic data, one might predict that if bacteria contain PC as a membrane lipid, they usually possess both bacterial pathways for PC biosynthesis. However, important pathogens such as Brucella melitensis, P. aeruginosa and Borrelia burgdorferi seem to be exceptional as they possess only the PCS pathway for PC formation.	2003 Dec	Martínez-Morales, Fernando; Martínez-Morales, F; Martínez-Morales; Schobert, Max; Schobert, M; Schobert; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	Microbiology (Reading)
14722690	Population dynamics of Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus in sugarcane cultivars and its effect on plant growth.	Different experiments have estimated that the contribution of biological nitrogen fixation (BNF) is largely variable among sugarcane cultivars. Which bacteria are the most important in sugarcane-associated BNF is unknown. However, Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus has been suggested as a strong candidate responsible for the BNF observed. In the present study, bacteria-free micropropagated plantlets of five sugarcane cultivars were inoculated with three G. diazotrophicus strains belonging to different genotypes. Bacterial colonization was monitored under different nitrogen fertilization levels and at different stages of plant growth. Analysis of the population dynamics of G. diazotrophicus strains in the different sugarcane varieties showed that the bacterial populations decreased drastically in relation to plant age, regardless of the nitrogen fertilization level, bacterial genotype or sugarcane cultivars. However, the persistence of the three strains was significantly longer in some cultivars (e.g., MEX 57-473) than in others (e.g., MY 55-14). In addition, some strains (e.g., PAl 5(T)) persisted for longer periods in higher numbers than other strains (e.g., PAl 3) inside plants of all the cultivars tested. Indeed, the study showed that the inoculation of G. diazotrophicus may be beneficial for sugarcane plant growth, but this response is dependent both on the G. diazotrophicus genotype and the sugarcane variety. The most positive response to inoculation was observed with the combination of strain PAl 5(T) and the variety MEX 57-473. Although the positive effect on sugarcane growth apparently occurred by mechanisms other than nitrogen fixation, the results show the importance of the sugarcane variety for the persistence of the plant-bacteria interaction, and it could explain the different rates of BNF estimated among sugarcane cultivars.	2003 Nov	Muñoz-Rojas, J; Muñoz-Rojas, J; Muñoz-Rojas; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	Microb Ecol
14597655	Regulatory network of Escherichia coli: consistency between literature knowledge and microarray profiles.	The transcriptional network of Escherichia coli may well be the most complete experimentally characterized network of a single cell. A rule-based approach was built to assess the degree of consistency between whole-genome microarray experiments in different experimental conditions and the accumulated knowledge in the literature compiled in RegulonDB, a data base of transcriptional regulation and operon organization in E. coli. We observed a high and statistical significant level of consistency, ranging from 70%-87%. When effector metabolites of regulatory proteins are not considered in the prediction of the active or inactive state of the regulators, consistency falls by up to 40%. Similarly, consistency decreases when rules for multiple regulatory interactions are altered or when "on" and "off" entries were assigned randomly. We modified the initial state of regulators and evaluated the propagation of errors in the network that do not correlate linearly with the connectivity of regulators. We interpret this deviation mainly as a result of the existence of redundant regulatory interactions. Consistency evaluation opens a new space of dialogue between theory and experiment, as the consequences of different assumptions can be evaluated and compared.	2003 Nov	Gutiérrez-Ríos, Rosa María; Gutiérrez-Ríos, RM; Gutiérrez-Ríos; Rosenblueth, David A; Rosenblueth, DA; Rosenblueth; Loza, José Antonio; Loza, JA; Loza; Huerta, Araceli M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Glasner, Jeremy D; Glasner, JD; Glasner; Blattner, Fred R; Blattner, FR; Blattner; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Genome Res
14600219	Transcriptional regulation of Pseudomonas aeruginosa rhlR, encoding a quorum-sensing regulatory protein.	The Pseudomonas aeruginosa rhlR gene encodes the transcriptional regulator RhlR which has a central role in the quorum-sensing response. Different gene products involved in bacterial pathogenesis are regulated at the transcriptional level by two quorum-sensing response systems, Las and Rhl. The expression of rhlR has been reported to be under the control of the Las system, but its transcriptional regulation has not been studied in detail. Here, the rhlR promoter region has been characterized and shown to present four different transcription start sites, two of which are included in the upstream gene (rhlB) coding region. It was found that rhlR expression is not only dependent on LasR but also on different regulatory proteins such as Vfr and RhlR itself, and also on the alternative sigma factor sigma(54). It is reported that rhlR expression is partially LasR-independent under certain culture conditions and is strongly influenced by environmental factors.	2003 Nov	Medina, Gerardo; Medina, G; Medina; Juárez, Katy; Juárez, K; Juárez; Díaz, Rafael; Díaz, R; Díaz; Soberón-Chávez, Gloria; Soberón-Chávez, G; Soberón-Chávez	Microbiology (Reading)
14529615	Sigma70 promoters in Escherichia coli: specific transcription in dense regions of overlapping promoter-like signals.	We present here a computational analysis showing that sigma70 house-keeping promoters are located within zones with high densities of promoter-like signals in Escherichia coli, and we introduce strategies that allow for the correct computer prediction of sigma70 promoters. Based on 599 experimentally verified promoters of E.coli K-12, we generated and evaluated more than 200 weight matrices optimizing different criteria to obtain the best recognition matrices. The alignments generating the best statistical models did not fully correspond with the canonical sigma70 model. However, matrices that correspond to such a canonical model performed better as tools for prediction. We tested the predictive capacity of these matrices on 250 bp long regions upstream of gene starts, where 90% of the known promoters occur. The computational matrix models generated an average of 38 promoter-like signals within each 250 bp region. In more than 50% of the cases, the true promoter does not have the best score within the region. We observed, in fact, that real promoters occur mostly within regions with high densities of overlapping putative promoters. We evaluated several strategies to identify promoters. The best one uses an intrinsic score of the -10 and -35 hexamers that form the promoter as well as an extrinsic score that uses the distribution of promoters from the start of the gene. We were able to identify 86% true promoters correctly, generating an average of 4.7 putative promoters per region as output, of which 3.7, on average, exist in clusters, as a series of overlapping potentially competing RNA polymerase-binding sites. As far as we know, this is the highest predictive capability reported so far. This high signal density is found mainly within regions upstream of genes, contrasting with coding regions and regions located between convergently transcribed genes. These results are consistent with experimental evidence that show the existence of multiple overlapping promoter sites that become functional under particular conditions. This density is probably the consequence of a rich number of vestiges of promoters in evolution. We suggest that transcriptional regulators as well as other functional promoters play an important role in keeping these latent signals suppressed.	2003 Oct	Huerta, Araceli M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	J Mol Biol
14572541	Identifying global regulators in transcriptional regulatory networks in bacteria.	The machinery for cells to take decisions, when environmental conditions change, includes protein-DNA interactions defined by transcriptional factors and their targets around promoters. Properties of global regulators are revised attempting to reach diagnostic explicit criteria for their definition and eventual future computational identification. These include among others, the number of regulated genes, the number and type of co-regulators, the different sigma-classes of promoters and the number of transcriptional factors they regulate, the size of the evolutionary family they belong to, and the variety of conditions where they exert their control. As a consequence, global versus local regulation can be identified, as shown for Escherichia coli and eventually in other genomes.	2003 Oct	Martínez-Antonio, Agustino; Martínez-Antonio, A; Martínez-Antonio; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Curr Opin Microbiol
15242276	Regulation of expression of symbiotic genes in Rhizobium sp. NGR234.	Research in the field of Rhizobium-legume symbiosis faces a new challenge: integrate the wealth of information generated by genomic projects. The goal: apprehend the complexity of the molecular mechanisms involved in symbiotic associations. At the time of writing, the genomes of three micro-symbionts (Bradyrhizobium japonicum, Mesorhizobium loti and Sinorhizobium meliloti) have been sequenced, and two more (those of Rhizobium leguminosarum and Rhizobium etli) will be completed in the near future. Together, completed rhizobial genomes represent already 23,393,822 bp of DNA sequence and 21,797 predicted open reading frames (ORFs). To identify candidate-symbiotic genes in such a broad database, predict their function and dissect the regulatory networks that govern their expression are no simple tasks. One way to confront this problem is to combine different datasets, in particular genetic and transcriptional maps as well as predicted promoters from bioinformatics analyses. Here, we would like to illustrate this type of approach with the analysis of the symbiotic plasmid (pNGR234a) of the broad host-range Rhizobium sp. NGR234.	2003 Oct	Perret, Xavier; Perret, X; Perret; Kobayashi, Hajime; Kobayashi, H; Kobayashi; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Indian J Exp Biol
13130069	Classification and nomenclature of Agrobacterium and Rhizobium.	Farrand et al. [Int J Syst Evol Microbiol 53 (2003), 1681-1687] have presented a critique of the proposal of Young et al. [Int J Syst Evol Microbiol 51 (2001), 89-103] to revise the nomenclature and classification of RHIZOBIUM: They argued that Young et al. (2001) are mistaken in their reclassification of all Agrobacterium species within Rhizobium, and that the resulting nomenclatural revision is 'unnecessary and unwarranted'. These objections arise because the authors appear not to understand the role of formal nomenclature, and fail to distinguish between formal and special-purpose nomenclatures (Bacteriological Code, 1990 Revision). The arguments set out by Farrand et al. (2003) can be addressed in terms of (1) the taxonomic status of the genera Agrobacterium and Rhizobium; (2) the status of species and biovars and their nomenclature; and (3) the role of transmissible genomic elements in classification and nomenclature. Finally, an attempt is made to unravel the confusion underpinning their discussion with a consideration of the relationship between formal and special-purpose nomenclatures.	2003 Sep	Young, J M; Young, JM; Young; Kuykendall, L D; Kuykendall, LD; Kuykendall; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Kerr, A; Kerr, A; Kerr; Sawada, H; Sawada, H; Sawada	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
12902376	Natural genomic design in Sinorhizobium meliloti: novel genomic architectures.	The complete nucleotide sequence of the genome of Sinorhizobium meliloti, the symbiont of alfalfa, was reported in 2001 by an international consortium of laboratories. The genome comprises a chromosome of 3.65 megabases (Mb) and two megaplasmids, pSymA and pSymB, of 1.35 Mb and 1.68 Mb, respectively. Based on the nucleotide sequence of the whole genome, we designed a pathway of consecutive rearrangements leading to novel genomic architectures. In a first step we obtained derivative strains containing two replicons; in a second step we obtained a strain containing the genetic information in one single replicon of 6.68 MB. From this last architecture we isolated revertants containing two replicons, and from these we could return to the original architecture showing the three replicons. We found that the relative frequency of excision of cointegrated replicons is higher at the site used for the cointegration than at other sites. This might conciliate two apparently opposed facts: the highly dynamic state of genomic architecture in S. meliloti and the common observation that different isolates and derived cellular clones of S. meliloti usually present the architecture of one chromosome and two distinct megaplasmids. Different aspects that must be considered to obtain full advantage of the strategy of natural genomic design are discussed.	2003 Aug	Guo, Xianwu; Guo, X; Guo; Flores, Margarita; Flores, M; Flores; Mavingui, Patrick; Mavingui, P; Mavingui; Fuentes, Sara Isabel; Fuentes, SI; Fuentes; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; Palacios, Rafael; Palacios, R; Palacios	Genome Res
12904565	Nitrogen fixation genetics and regulation in a Pseudomonas stutzeri strain associated with rice.	The Pseudomonas stutzeri strain A1501 (formerly known as Alcaligenes faecalis) fixes nitrogen under microaerobic conditions in the free-living state and colonizes rice endophytically. The authors characterized a region in strain A1501, corresponding to most of the nif genes and the rnf genes, involved in electron transport to nitrogenase in Rhodobacter capsulatus. The region contained three groups of genes arranged in the same order as in Azotobacter vinelandii: (1) nifB fdx ORF3 nifQ ORF5 ORF6; (2) nifLA-rnfABCDGEF-nifY2/nafY; (3) ORF13 ORF12-nifHDK-nifTY ORF1 ORF2-nifEN. Unlike in A. vinelandii, where these genes are not contiguous on the chromosome, but broken into two regions of the genome, the genes characterized here in P. stutzeri are contiguous and present on a 30 kb region in the genome of this organism. Insertion mutagenesis confirmed that most of the nif and the rnf genes in A1501 were essential for nitrogen fixation. Using lacZ fusions it was found that nif and rnf gene expression was under the control of ntrBC, nifLA and rpoN and that the rnf gene products were involved in the regulation of the nitrogen fixation process.	2003 Aug	Desnoues, Nicole; Desnoues, N; Desnoues; Lin, Min; Lin, M; Lin; Guo, Xianwu; Guo, X; Guo; Ma, Luyan; Ma, L; Ma; Carreño-Lopez, Ricardo; Carreño-Lopez, R; Carreño-Lopez; Elmerich, Claudine; Elmerich, C; Elmerich	Microbiology (Reading)
12801410	The mosaic structure of the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium etli CFN42 and its relation to other symbiotic genome compartments.	Symbiotic bacteria known as rhizobia interact with the roots of legumes and induce the formation of nitrogen-fixing nodules. In rhizobia, essential genes for symbiosis are compartmentalized either in symbiotic plasmids or in chromosomal symbiotic islands. To understand the structure and evolution of the symbiotic genome compartments (SGCs), it is necessary to analyze their common genetic content and organization as well as to study their differences. To date, five SGCs belonging to distinct species of rhizobia have been entirely sequenced. We report the complete sequence of the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium etli CFN42, a microsymbiont of beans, and a comparison with other SGC sequences available.	2003	González, Víctor; González, V; González; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Ramírez-Romero, Miguel A; Ramírez-Romero, MA; Ramírez-Romero; Medrano-Soto, Arturo; Medrano-Soto, A; Medrano-Soto; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Hernández-González, Ismael; Hernández-González, I; Hernández-González; Hernández-Celis, Juan Carlos; Hernández-Celis, JC; Hernández-Celis; Quintero, Verónica; Quintero, V; Quintero; Moreno-Hagelsieb, Gabriel; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Rodríguez, Oscar; Rodríguez, O; Rodríguez; Flores, Margarita; Flores, M; Flores; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila	Genome Biol
12892151	Description of new Ensifer strains from nodules and proposal to transfer Ensifer adhaerens Casida 1982 to Sinorhizobium as Sinorhizobium adhaerens comb. nov. Request for an opinion.	A group of four diverse rhizobial isolates and two soil isolates that are highly related to Ensifer adhaerens were characterized by a polyphasic approach. On the basis of DNA-DNA hybridizations and phenotypic features, these strains cannot be distinguished clearly form Ensifer adhaerens, a soil bacterium that was described in 1982, mainly on the basis of phenotypic characteristics. Phylogenetically, Ensifer and Sinorhizobium form a single group in the 16S rDNA dendrogram of the alpha-Proteobacteria, as well as in an analysis of partial recA gene sequences. They may therefore be regarded as a single genus. Because Sinorhizobium was proposed in 1988, according to the Bacteriological Code (1990 Revision) the older name, Ensifer, has priority. However, there are several reasons why a change from Sinorhizobium to Ensifer may not be the best solution and making an exception to Rule 38 may be more appropriate. We therefore propose the species Sinorhizobium adhaerens comb. nov. and put forward a Request for an Opinion to the Judicial Commission regarding the conservation of Sinorhizobium adhaerens over Ensifer adhaerens.	2003 Jul	Willems, Anne; Willems, A; Willems; Fernández-López, Manuel; Fernández-López, M; Fernández-López; Muñoz-Adelantado, Estefania; Muñoz-Adelantado, E; Muñoz-Adelantado; Goris, Johan; Goris, J; Goris; De Vos, Paul; De Vos, P; De Vos; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Toro, Nicolas; Toro, N; Toro; Gillis, Monique; Gillis, M; Gillis	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
12848422	Membrane lipids in plant-associated bacteria: their biosyntheses and possible functions.	Membrane lipids in most bacteria generally consist of the glycerophospholipids phosphatidylglycerol, cardiolipin, and phosphatidylethanolamine (PE). A subset of bacteria also possesses the methylated derivatives of PE, monomethylphosphatidylethanolamine, dimethylphosphatidylethanolamine, and phosphatidylcholine (PC). In Sinorhizobium meliloti, which can form a nitrogen-fixing root nodule symbiosis with Medicago spp., PC can be formed by two entirely different biosynthetic pathways, either the PE methylation pathway or the recently discovered PC synthase pathway. In the latter pathway, one of the building blocks for PC formation, choline, is obtained from the eukaryotic host. Under phosphorus-limiting conditions of growth, S. meliloti replaces its membrane phospholipids by membrane-forming lipids that do not contain phosphorus; namely, the sulfolipid sulfoquinovosyl diacylglycerol, ornithine-derived lipids, and diacylglyceryl-N,N,N-trimethylhomoserine. Although none of these phosphorus-free lipids is essential for growth in culture media rich in phosphorus or for the symbiotic interaction with the legume host, they are expected to have major roles under free-living conditions in environments poor in accessible phosphorus. In contrast, sinorhizobial mutants deficient in PC show severe growth defects and are completely unable to form nodules on their host plants. Even bradyrhizobial mutants with reduced PC biosynthesis can form only root nodules displaying reduced rates of nitrogen fixation. Therefore, in the cases of these microsymbionts, the ability to form sufficient bacterial PC is crucial for a successful interplay with their host plants.	2003 Jul	López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
12795377	A global analysis of protein expression profiles in Sinorhizobium meliloti: discovery of new genes for nodule occupancy and stress adaptation.	A proteomic examination of Sinorhizobium meliloti strain 1021 was undertaken using a combination of 2-D gel electrophoresis, peptide mass fingerprinting, and bioinformatics. Our goal was to identify (i) putative symbiosis- or nutrient-stress-specific proteins, (ii) the biochemical pathways active under different conditions, (iii) potential new genes, and (iv) the extent of posttranslational modifications of S. meliloti proteins. In total, we identified the protein products of 810 genes (13.1% of the genome's coding capacity). The 810 genes generated 1,180 gene products, with chromosomal genes accounting for 78% of the gene products identified (18.8% of the chromosome's coding capacity). The activity of 53 metabolic pathways was inferred from bioinformatic analysis of proteins with assigned Enzyme Commission numbers. Of the remaining proteins that did not encode enzymes, ABC-type transporters composed 12.7% and regulatory proteins 3.4% of the total. Proteins with up to seven transmembrane domains were identified in membrane preparations. A total of 27 putative nodule-specific proteins and 35 nutrient-stress-specific proteins were identified and used as a basis to define genes and describe processes occurring in S. meliloti cells in nodules and under stress. Several nodule proteins from the plant host were present in the nodule bacteria preparations. We also identified seven potentially novel proteins not predicted from the DNA sequence. Post-translational modifications such as N-terminal processing could be inferred from the data. The posttranslational addition of UMP to the key regulator of nitrogen metabolism, PII, was demonstrated. This work demonstrates the utility of combining mass spectrometry with protein arraying or separation techniques to identify candidate genes involved in important biological processes and niche occupations that may be intransigent to other methods of gene expression profiling.	2003 Jun	Djordjevic, Michael A; Djordjevic, MA; Djordjevic; Chen, Han Cai; Chen, HC; Chen; Natera, Siria; Natera, S; Natera; Van Noorden, Giel; Van Noorden, G; Van Noorden; Menzel, Christian; Menzel, C; Menzel; Taylor, Scott; Taylor, S; Taylor; Renard, Clotilde; Renard, C; Renard; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; Weiller, Georg F; Weiller, GF; Weiller; Sinorhizobium DNA Sequencing Consortium	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
12730270	Molecular cloning of the cDNA encoding aspartate aminotransferase from bean root nodules and determination of its role in nodule nitrogen metabolism.	A cDNA clone encoding aspartate aminotransferase (PVAAT-2) (EC 2.6.1.1) was isolated from the common bean Phaseolus vulgaris nodule cDNA library. The nucleotide sequence analysis of the full-length cDNA allowed its identification by comparison with sequence databases. The amino acid sequence of the bean PvAAT-2 showed high similarity with the AAT-2 isoforms described in other leguminous plants. The amino-terminal region of the PvAAT-2 contains a sequence, which shares common features of plastid transit peptides. Southern blot analysis showed that the PvAAT-2 clone is encoded by a single gene in the P. vulgaris genome. Analysis of the PvAAT-2 mRNA levels suggests that the expression of this gene is nodule enhanced. The PvAAT-2 transcript is more abundant in nodules with increased synthesis of amides and is down-regulated in conditions where ureides accumulate. When plants were supplemented with ureides or with amides, PvAAT-2 expression was reduced, while it was not affected when plants were treated with allopurinol, an inhibitor of ureide synthesis. On the other hand, the expression of asparagine synthetase (another enzyme involved in the synthesis of amides) is not affected either by ureides or amides. These data suggest a role for AAT-2 in the mechanism involved in the synthesis of nitrogen compounds in bean nodules.	2003 Jun	Silvente, Sonia; Silvente, S; Silvente; Camas, Alberto; Camas, A; Camas; Lara, Miguel; Lara, M; Lara	J Exp Bot
12833533	Proteome analysis of aerobic and fermentative metabolism in Rhizobium etli CE3.	Rhizobium etli undergoes a transition from an aerobic to a fermentative metabolism during successive subcultures in minimal medium. This metabolic transition does not occur in cells subcultured in rich medium, or in minimal medium containing either biotin or thiamine. In this report, we characterize the aerobic and fermentative metabolism of R. etli using proteome analysis. According to their synthesis patterns in response to aerobic (rich medium, minimal medium with biotin or minimal medium with thiamine) or fermentative (minimal medium without supplements) growth conditions, proteins were assigned to five different classes: (i) proteins produced only in aerobic conditions (e.g., catalase-peroxidase KatG and the E2 component of pyruvate dehydrogenase); (ii) protein produced under both conditions but strongly induced in aerobic metabolism (e.g., malate dehydrogenase and the succinyl-CoA synthetase beta subunit); (iii) proteins that were induced equally under all conditions tested (e.g., AniA, DnaK, and GroEL); (iv) proteins downregulated during aerobic metabolism, and (v) proteins specific to only one of the conditions analyzed. Northern blotting studies of katG expression confirmed the proteome data for this protein. The negative regulation of carbon metabolism proteins observed in fermentative metabolism is consistent with the drastic physiological changes which occur during this process.	2003 Jun	Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Guzmán, Yudith; Guzmán, Y; Guzmán; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Hernández, Magdalena; Hernández, M; Hernández; del Carmen Vargas, Maria; del Carmen Vargas, M; del Carmen Vargas; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	Proteomics
12724378	Only one catalase, katG, is detectable in Rhizobium etli, and is encoded along with the regulator OxyR on a plasmid replicon.	The plasmid-borne Rhizobium etli katG gene encodes a dual-function catalase-peroxidase (KatG) (EC 1.11.1.7) that is inducible and heat-labile. In contrast to other rhizobia, katG was shown to be solely responsible for catalase and peroxidase activity in R. etli. An R. etli mutant that did not express catalase activity exhibited increased sensitivity to hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)). Pre-exposure to a sublethal concentration of H(2)O(2) allowed R. etli to adapt and survive subsequent exposure to higher concentrations of H(2)O(2). Based on a multiple sequence alignment with other catalase-peroxidases, it was found that the catalytic domains of the R. etli KatG protein had three large insertions, two of which were typical of KatG proteins. Like the katG gene of Escherichia coli, the R. etli katG gene was induced by H(2)O(2) and was important in sustaining the exponential growth rate. In R. etli, KatG catalase-peroxidase activity is induced eightfold in minimal medium during stationary phase. It was shown that KatG catalase-peroxidase is not essential for nodulation and nitrogen fixation in symbiosis with Phaseolus vulgaris, although bacteroid proteome analysis indicated an alternative compensatory mechanism for the oxidative protection of R. etli in symbiosis. Next to, and divergently transcribed from the catalase promoter, an ORF encoding the regulator OxyR was found; this is the first plasmid-encoded oxyR gene described so far. Additionally, the katG promoter region contained sequence motifs characteristic of OxyR binding sites, suggesting a possible regulatory mechanism for katG expression.	2003 May	Del Carmen Vargas, María; Del Carmen Vargas, M; Del Carmen Vargas; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Dávalos, Araceli; Dávalos, A; Dávalos; Reyes-Pérez, Agustín; Reyes-Pérez, A; Reyes-Pérez; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; García-de Los Santos, Alejandro; García-de Los Santos, A; García-de Los Santos; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	Microbiology (Reading)
12676676	Identification of a third sulfate activation system in Sinorhizobium sp. strain BR816: the CysDN sulfate activation complex.	Sinorhizobium sp. strain BR816 possesses two nodPQ copies, providing activated sulfate (3'-phosphoadenosine-5'-phosphosulfate [PAPS]) needed for the biosynthesis of sulfated Nod factors. It was previously shown that the Nod factors synthesized by a nodPQ double mutant are not structurally different from those of the wild-type strain. In this study, we describe the characterization of a third sulfate activation locus. Two open reading frames were fully characterized and displayed the highest similarity with the Sinorhizobium meliloti housekeeping ATP sulfurylase subunits, encoded by the cysDN genes. The growth characteristics as well as the levels of Nod factor sulfation of a cysD mutant (FAJ1600) and a nodP1 nodQ2 cysD triple mutant (FAJ1604) were determined. FAJ1600 shows a prolonged lag phase only with inorganic sulfate as the sole sulfur source, compared to the wild-type parent. On the other hand, FAJ1604 requires cysteine for growth and produces sulfate-free Nod factors. Apigenin-induced nod gene expression for Nod factor synthesis does not influence the growth characteristics of any of the strains studied in the presence of different sulfur sources. In this way, it could be demonstrated that the "household" CysDN sulfate activation complex of Sinorhizobium sp. strain BR816 can additionally ensure Nod factor sulfation, whereas the symbiotic PAPS pool, generated by the nodPQ sulfate activation loci, can be engaged for sulfation of amino acids. Finally, our results show that rhizobial growth defects are likely the reason for a decreased nitrogen fixation capacity of bean plants inoculated with cysD mutant strains, which can be restored by adding methionine to the plant nutrient solution.	2003 Apr	Snoeck, Carla; Snoeck, C; Snoeck; Verreth, Christel; Verreth, C; Verreth; Hernández-Lucas, Ismael; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Vanderleyden, Jos; Vanderleyden, J; Vanderleyden	Appl Environ Microbiol
12631328	Antisense inhibition of NADH glutamate synthase impairs carbon/nitrogen assimilation in nodules of alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.).	Legumes acquire significant amounts of nitrogen for growth from symbiotic nitrogen fixation. The glutamine synthetase (GS)/NADH-dependent glutamate synthase (NADH-GOGAT) cycle catalyzes initial nitrogen assimilation. This report describes the impact of specifically reducing nodule NADH-GOGAT activity on symbiotic performance of alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.). Four independent transgenic alfalfa lines, designated GA89, GA87, GA88, and GA82 (for GOGATantisense), containing an antisense NADH-GOGAT cDNA fragment under the control of the soybean leghemoglobin (lbc3) promoter were evaluated. The GA plants were fertile and showed normal growth in non-symbiotic conditions. The NADH-GOGAT antisense transgene was heritable and the T1 plants showed phenotypic alterations - similar to primary transformants. Clonally propagated plants were inoculated with Sinorhizobium meliloti after rooting and the symbiotic phenotype was analyzed 21 days post-inoculation. Nodules of each GA line had reduced NADH-GOGAT activity, ranging from 33 to 87% of control plants, that was accompanied by comparable decreases in RNA and protein. Plants from the GA89 line, with the lowest NADH-GOGAT activity (c. 30%), presented a strikingly altered symbiotic phenotype: concomitantly activities of key enzyme for carbon and nitrogen assimilation decreased; nodule amino acids and amides were reduced while sucrose accumulated. Antisense GOGAT plants were chlorotic, reduced in fresh weight, and had a lower N content than control plants. Photosynthesis was also impaired in antisense plants. Specifically, reducing NADH-GOGAT in nodules resulted in plants having impaired nitrogen assimilation and altered carbon/nitrogen metabolic flux.	2003 Mar	Cordoba, Elizabeth; Cordoba, E; Cordoba; Shishkova, Svetlana; Shishkova, S; Shishkova; Vance, Carroll P; Vance, CP; Vance; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	Plant J
12547654	Biosynthesis of phosphatidylcholine in bacteria.	Phosphatidylcholine (PC) is the major membrane-forming phospholipid in eukaryotes and can be synthesized by either of two pathways, the methylation pathway or the CDP-choline pathway. Many prokaryotes lack PC, but it can be found in significant amounts in membranes of rather diverse bacteria and based on genomic data, we estimate that more than 10% of all bacteria possess PC. Enzymatic methylation of phosphatidylethanolamine via the methylation pathway was thought to be the only biosynthetic pathway to yield PC in bacteria. However, a choline-dependent pathway for PC biosynthesis has been discovered in Sinorhizobium meliloti. In this pathway, PC synthase, condenses choline directly with CDP-diacylglyceride to form PC in one step. A number of symbiotic (Rhizobium leguminosarum, Mesorhizobium loti) and pathogenic (Agrobacterium tumefaciens, Brucella melitensis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Borrelia burgdorferi and Legionella pneumophila) bacteria seem to possess the PC synthase pathway and we suggest that the respective eukaryotic host functions as the provider of choline for this pathway. Pathogens entering their hosts through epithelia (Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae) require phosphocholine substitutions on their cell surface components that are biosynthetically also derived from choline supplied by the host. However, the incorporation of choline in these latter cases proceeds via choline phosphate and CDP-choline as intermediates. The occurrence of two intermediates in prokaryotes usually found as intermediates in the eukaryotic CDP-choline pathway for PC biosynthesis raises the question whether some bacteria might form PC via a CDP-choline pathway.	2003 Mar	Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	Prog Lipid Res
12591886	Conjugative transfer of p42a from rhizobium etli CFN42, which is required for mobilization of the symbiotic plasmid, is regulated by quorum sensing.	Rhizobium etli CFN42 contains six plasmids. Only one of them, p42a, is self-conjugative at high frequency. This plasmid is strictly required for mobilization of the symbiotic plasmid (pSym). To study the transfer mechanism of p42a, a self-transmissible cosmid clone containing its transfer region was isolated. Its sequence showed that most of the tra genes are highly similar to genes of Agrobacterium tumefaciens pTiC58 and other related plasmids. Four putative regulatory genes were identified; three of these (traI, traR, and cinR) belong to the LuxR-LuxI family. Mutagenesis of these genes confirmed their requirement for p42a transfer. We found that the conjugative transfer of p42a is dependent on quorum sensing, and consequently pSym transfer also was found to be similarly regulated, establishing a complex link between environmental conditions and pSym transfer. Although R. etli has been shown to produce different N-acyl-homoserine lactones, only one of them, a 3-oxo-C(8)-homoserine lactone encoded by the traI gene described here, was involved in transfer. Mutagenesis of the fourth regulatory gene, traM, had no effect on transfer. Analysis of transcriptional fusions of the regulatory genes to a reporter gene suggests a complex regulation scheme for p42a conjugative transfer. Conjugal transfer gene expression was found to be directly upregulated by TraR and the 3-oxo-C(8)-homoserine lactone synthesized by TraI. The traI gene was autoregulated by these elements and positively regulated by CinR, while cinR expression required traI. Finally, we did not detect expression of traM, indicating that in p42a TraM may be expressed so weakly that it cannot inhibit conjugal transfer, leading to the unrepressed transfer of p42a.	2003 Mar	Tun-Garrido, Cristina; Tun-Garrido, C; Tun-Garrido; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; González, Víctor; González, V; González; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom	J Bacteriol
12644659	Nylon filter arrays reveal differential gene expression in proteoid roots of white lupin in response to phosphorus deficiency.	White lupin (Lupinus albus) adapts to phosphorus deficiency (-P) by the development of short, densely clustered lateral roots called proteoid (or cluster) roots. In an effort to better understand the molecular events mediating these adaptive responses, we have isolated and sequenced 2,102 expressed sequence tags (ESTs) from cDNA libraries prepared with RNA isolated at different stages of proteoid root development. Determination of overlapping regions revealed 322 contigs (redundant copy transcripts) and 1,126 singletons (single-copy transcripts) that compile to a total of 1,448 unique genes (unigenes). Nylon filter arrays with these 2,102 ESTs from proteoid roots were performed to evaluate global aspects of gene expression in response to -P stress. ESTs differentially expressed in P-deficient proteoid roots compared with +P and -P normal roots include genes involved in carbon metabolism, secondary metabolism, P scavenging and remobilization, plant hormone metabolism, and signal transduction.	2003 Mar	Uhde-Stone, Claudia; Uhde-Stone, C; Uhde-Stone; Zinn, Kelly E; Zinn, KE; Zinn; Ramirez-Yáñez, Mario; Ramirez-Yáñez, M; Ramirez-Yáñez; Li, Aiguo; Li, A; Li; Vance, Carroll P; Vance, CP; Vance; Allan, Deborah L; Allan, DL; Allan	Plant Physiol
12654032	Overexpression of alfalfa cytosolic glutamine synthetase in nodules and flowers of transgenic Lotus japonicus plants.	Legumes can obtain nitrogen from symbiotic nitrogen fixation in root nodules. The glutamine synthetase/glutamate synthase cycle is responsible for the initial nitrogen assimilation. This work reports the analysis of transgenic Lotus japonicus plants with the chimeric gene containing the alfalfa cytosolic glutamine synthetase (GS1) (EC 6.3.1.2) gene controlled by the Sesbania rostrata leghemoglobin gene promoter (Srglb3p). Surprisingly, all of the transgenic primary transformants analysed were sterile. Two transformants designated GS39 and GS44 were further analysed. GS in nodules of GS39 and GS44 plants was upregulated, at the level of transcript and protein. The transgenic plants had 2-fold higher nodule GS activity and similar root GS activity compared to control plants. The GS39 and GS44 sterile plants showed morphological alterations in pollen grains and in ovules. An increase in GS transcript abundance and enzyme activity was measured during early and late stages of flower development of GS plants. Flowers of GS plants showed higher glutamine content, resulting in an increased glutamine/glutamate ratio. The GS transcript and protein were detected in ovules. These data indicate that overexpression of GS1 in reproductive organs critically affects their development and might be a reason for sterility of L. japonicus plants.	2003 Mar	Suárez, Ramón; Suárez, R; Suárez; Márquez, Judith; Márquez, J; Márquez; Shishkova, Svetlana; Shishkova, S; Shishkova; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández	Physiol Plant
12747410	Sinorhizobium americanus sp. nov., a new Sinorhizobium species nodulating native Acacia spp. in Mexico.	The sinorhizobia isolated from root nodules of Acacia species native of Mexico constitute a diverse group of bacteria on the basis of their metabolic enzyme electromorphs but share restriction patterns of the PCR products of 16S rRNA genes and a common 500 kb symbiotic plasmid. They are distinguished from other Sinorhizobium species by their levels of DNA-DNA hybridization and the sequence of 16S rRNA and nifH genes. nolR gene hybridization patterns were found useful to identify sinorhizobia and characterize species. A new species, Sinorhizobium americanus, is described and the type strain is CFNEI 156 from Acacia acatlensis.	2003 Mar	Toledo, Ivonne; Toledo, I; Toledo; Lloret, Lourdes; Lloret, L; Lloret; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Syst Appl Microbiol
12575750	Genetic analysis of a pH-regulated operon from Rhizobium tropici CIAT899 involved in acid tolerance and nodulation competitiveness.	Rhizobium tropici CIAT899 is highly acid tolerant and a good competitor for Phaseolus vulgaris nodule occupancy at low pH values. Using Tn5 mutagenesis, we identified an operon required for acid tolerance and nodulation competitiveness. The insertion was mapped to the 5' end of atvA, encoding a product with high sequence identity to the agro-bacterial AcvB virulence protein. Complementation analyses indicated that atvA is an ortholog of acvB, both genes being required for acid tolerance. A Ser/Ala substitution in the LIPASE_SER motif of AtvA resulted in an acid sensitive Fix+ but very poorly competing strain, demonstrating that Ser-313 is essential for AtvA function. atvA is the second gene in an operon that is transcriptionally upregulated by acid shock. The acid-responsive promoter was mapped to a 469-bp intergenic region located upstream of lpiA, the first gene in the operon. lpiA-like genes are found in several alpha, beta, and gamma Proteobacteria that interact with eukaryotic host cells, and they are predicted to encode membrane proteins related to the FmtC/MprF family from low G+C Firmicutes. The latter proteins are involved in resistance to cationic antimicrobial peptides. A nonpolar deletion in lpiA caused a sevenfold decrease in relative nodulation competitiveness.	2003 Feb	Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Neumann-Silkow, Frauke; Neumann-Silkow, F; Neumann-Silkow; Pacios-Bras, Cristina; Pacios-Bras, C; Pacios-Bras; Spaink, Herman P; Spaink, HP; Spaink; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Werner, Dietrich; Werner, D; Werner	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
12554718	Heterogeneity of sucrose synthase genes in bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.): evidence for a nodule-enhanced sucrose synthase gene.	Sucrose synthase (SS), the key sucrose hydrolytic enzyme (EC 2.4.1.13), plays an important role in N(2)-fixing nodule metabolism. It has also been proposed that N(2) fixation in soybean nodules could be mediated by the potential to metabolize sucrose. The isolation and characterization of a nodule-enhanced SS full-length cDNA clone from the bean Phaseolus vulgaris is reported here. Southern blot analysis indicated that there are at least two SS genes in beans. Using a 3' specific probe from this SS cDNA clone, it was possible to identify a nodule-enhanced SS gene (PvSSn), which is expressed almost exclusively in nodules. A second gene (PvSS), which is expressed in all tissues tested, was detected using a coding region probe. Nodule-enhanced PvSSn transcript levels, but not the enzyme activity or protein amount, is reduced during nodule development. These data indicated that this reduction could be due to a limitation on the carbon availability in the nodule. PvSSn expression is reduced in the asparagine-treated nodules. By contrast, PvSSn transcript levels in nodules increased in the presence of glutamine, allantoin and allopurinol. This result suggests a relationship between ureide transport and SS regulation and could help in understanding why the ureide transport mechanism is activated during nitrogen fixation in bean.	2003 Feb	Silvente, Sonia; Silvente, S; Silvente; Camas, Alberto; Camas, A; Camas; Lara, Miguel; Lara, M; Lara	J Exp Bot
12571008	Rhizobium etli and Rhizobium gallicum nodulate common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) in a traditionally managed milpa plot in Mexico: population genetics and biogeographic implications.	The stability of the genetic structure of rhizobial populations nodulating Phaseolus vulgaris cultivated in a traditionally managed milpa plot in Mexico was studied over three consecutive years. The set of molecular markers analyzed (including partial rrs, glnII, nifH, and nodB sequences), along with host range experiments, placed the isolates examined in Rhizobium etli bv. phaseoli and Rhizobium gallicum bv. gallicum. Cluster analysis of multilocus enzyme electrophoresis and plasmid profile data separated the two species and identified numerically dominant clones within each of them. Population genetic analyses showed that there was high genetic differentiation between the two species and that there was low intrapopulation differentiation of the species over the 3 years. The results of linkage disequilibrium analyses are consistent with an epidemic genetic structure for both species, with frequent genetic exchange taking place within conspecific populations but not between the R. etli and R. gallicum populations. A subsample of isolates was selected and used for 16S ribosomal DNA PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis, nifH copy number determination, and host range experiments. Plasmid profiles and nifH hybridization patterns also revealed the occurrence of lateral plasmid transfer among distinct multilocus genotypes within species but not between species. Both species were recovered from nodules of the same plants, indicating that mechanisms other than host, spatial, or temporal isolation may account for the genetic barrier between the species. The biogeographic implications of finding an R. gallicum bv. gallicum population nodulating common bean in America are discussed.	2003 Feb	Silva, Claudia; Silva, C; Silva; Vinuesa, Pablo; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Eguiarte, Luis E; Eguiarte, LE; Eguiarte; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Souza, Valeria; Souza, V; Souza	Appl Environ Microbiol
12580283	BacS: an abundant bacteroid protein in Rhizobium etli whose expression ex planta requires nifA.	Rhizobium etli CFN42 bacteroids from bean nodules possessed an abundant 16-kDa protein (BacS) that was found in the membrane pellet after cell disruption. This protein was not detected in bacteria cultured in tryptone-yeast extract. In minimal media, it was produced at low oxygen concentration but not in a mutant whose nifA was disrupted. N-terminal sequencing of the protein led to isolation of a bacS DNA fragment. DNA hybridization and nucleotide sequencing revealed three copies of the bacS gene, all residing on the main symbiotic plasmid of strain CFN42. A stretch of 304 nucleotides, exactly conserved upstream of all three bacS open reading frames, had very close matches with the NifA and sigma 54 consensus binding sequences. The only bacS homology in the genetic sequence databases was to three hypothetical proteins of unknown function, all from rhizobial species. Mutation and genetic complementation indicated that each of the bacS genes gives rise to a BacS polypeptide. Mutants disrupted or deleted in all three genes did not produce the BacS polypeptide but were Nod+ and Fix+ on Phaseolus vulgaris.	2003 Jan	Jahn, Olivia J; Jahn, OJ; Jahn; Davila, Guillermo; Davila, G; Davila; Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Noel, K Dale; Noel, KD; Noel	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
14574106	Evolutionary and structural diversity of fungal laccases.	Fungal laccases have been extensively exploited for industrial purposes and there is a wealth of information available regarding their reaction mechanism, biological role and several molecular aspects, including cloning, heterologous expression and transcriptional analyses. Here we present the reconstruction of the fungal laccase loci evolution inferred from the comparative analysis of 48 different sequences. The topology of the phylogenetic trees indicate that a single monophyletic branch exists for fungal laccases and that laccase isozyme genes may have evolved independently, possibly through duplication-divergence events. Laccases are copper-containing enzymes generally identified by the utilization of substituted p-diphenol substrates. Interestingly, our approach permitted the assignment of two copper-containing oxidases, preliminarily catalogued as laccases, to a different evolutionary group, distantly related to the main branch of bona fide laccases.	2003	Valderrama, Brenda; Valderrama, B; Valderrama; Oliver, Patricia; Oliver, P; Oliver; Medrano-Soto, Arturo; Medrano-Soto, A; Medrano-Soto; Vazquez-Duhalt, Rafael; Vazquez-Duhalt, R; Vazquez-Duhalt	Antonie Van Leeuwenhoek
12169563	A powerful non-homology method for the prediction of operons in prokaryotes.	The prediction of the transcription unit organization of genomes is an important clue in the inference of functional relationships of genes, the interpretation and evaluation of transcriptome experiments, and the overall inference of the regulatory networks governing the expression of genes in response to the environment. Though several methods have been devised to predict operons, most need a high characterization of the genome analysed. Log-likelihoods derived from inter-genic distance distributions work surprisingly well to predict operons in Escherichia coli and are available for any genome as soon as the gene sets are predicted.	2002	Moreno-Hagelsieb, Gabriel; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Bioinformatics
12481062	Characterization of Arabidopsis AtAMT2, a high-affinity ammonium transporter of the plasma membrane.	AtAMT2 is an ammonium transporter that is only distantly related to the five members of the AtAMT1 family of high-affinity ammonium transporters in Arabidopsis. The short-lived radioactive ion (13)NH(4)(+) was used to show that AtAMT2, expressed in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae), is a high-affinity transporter with a K(m) for ammonium of about 20 microM. Changes in external pH between 5.0 and 7.5 had little effect on the K(m) for ammonium, indicating that NH(4)(+), not NH(3), is the substrate for AtAMT2. The AtAMT2 gene was expressed in all organs of Arabidopsis and was subject to nitrogen (N) regulation, at least in roots where expression was partially repressed by high concentrations of ammonium nitrate and derepressed in the absence of external N. Although expression of AtAMT2 in shoots responded little to changes in root N status, transcript levels in leaves declined under high CO(2) conditions. Transient expression of an AtAMT2-green fluorescent protein fusion protein in Arabidopsis leaf epidermal cells indicated a plasma membrane location for the AtAMT2 protein. Thus, AtAMT2 is likely to play a significant role in moving ammonium between the apoplast and symplast of cells throughout the plant. However, a dramatic reduction in the level of AtAMT2 transcript brought about by dsRNA interference with gene expression had no obvious effect on plant growth or development, under the conditions tested.	2002 Dec	Sohlenkamp, Christian; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Wood, Craig C; Wood, CC; Wood; Roeb, Gerhard W; Roeb, GW; Roeb; Udvardi, Michael K; Udvardi, MK; Udvardi	Plant Physiol
15130857	Towards a bioinformatics network for Latin America and the Caribbean (LACBioNet).	Bioinformatics is increasingly recognised as a crucial field for research and development in the biological sciences, and forms an integral part of genomics, proteomics and modern biotechnology. Worldwide participation is important, and scientists in developing countries can contribute to this field. Regional networks for bioinformatics are highly beneficial for capacity strengthening and cooperation, and for establishing productive interactions between scientists in the fields of biological and informatics sciences. Such a network (LACBioNet) is being organised for Latin America and the Caribbean. Its immediate goals include the organisation and extension of nodes and services, information and communication, research and development in different specialty fields of bioinformatics, and training and human resource development.	2002	Degrave, Wim M; Degrave, WM; Degrave; Vargas, Reynaldo; Vargas, R; Vargas; Alvarez, Fernando; Alvarez, F; Alvarez; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Nuñez, Luis; Nuñez, L; Nuñez; Ramirez, José Luis; Ramirez, JL; Ramirez; Grau, Oscar; Grau, O; Grau	Appl Bioinformatics
12383728	Rhizobium etli CFN42 contains at least three plasmids of the repABC family: a structural and evolutionary analysis.	In this paper, we report the identification of replication/partition regions of plasmid p42a and p42b of Rhizobium etli CFN42. Sequence analysis reveals that both replication/partition regions belong to the repABC family. Phylogenetic analysis of all the complete repABC replication/partition regions reported to date, shows that repABC plasmids coexisting in the same strain arose most likely by lateral transfer instead of by duplication followed by divergence. A model explaining how new incompatibility groups originate, is proposed.	2002 Sep	Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Porta, Helena; Porta, H; Porta; Izquierdo, Javier; Izquierdo, J; Izquierdo; Tun-Garrido, Cristina; Tun-Garrido, C; Tun-Garrido; García-de-los-Santos, Alejandro; García-de-los-Santos, A; García-de-los-Santos; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom	Plasmid
12421308	A site-specific recombinase (RinQ) is required to exert incompatibility towards the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium etli.	The replication/partition region of the symbiotic plasmid p42d of Rhizobium etli CE3 is characterized by the presence of the repABC operon. A recombinant plasmid containing this region is able to replicate in a R. etli derivative cured from p42d, with the same stability and copy number shown by the parental plasmid. However, when this construct is introduced into the wild-type strain, instead of exerting incompatibility against the p42d, it forms a stable cointegrate with it. In this paper, we show that a site-specific resolvase, and its action sites are essential factors to displace the symbiotic p42d. We propose a model for this novel incompatibility mechanism.	2002 Nov	Quintero, Verónica; Quintero, V; Quintero; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila	Mol Microbiol
12398186	In vivo cloning strategy for Rhizobium plasmids.	We have developed a simple system to clone indigenous Rhizobium plasmids into E. coli. The strategy consists of three matings: the first is to insert Tn5 in the plasmid to be cloned, the second incorporates the integrative vector into the inserted Tn5 in the native Rhizobium plasmid, and the last mating transfers the target plasmid directly into E. coli. This mating-based system was successfully used to clone plasmids of Rhizobium species with sizes ranging from 150 to 270 kb. In addition, a 500-kb fragment of a 600-kb megaplasmid was also cloned. This strategy could be used for cloning indigenous replicons of other gram-negative bacteria into a different host.	2002 Oct	Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Mavingui, P; Mavingui, P; Mavingui; Finan, T; Finan, T; Finan; Chain, P; Chain, P; Chain; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Biotechniques
12489782	The glcB locus of Rhizobium leguminosarum VF39 encodes an arabinose-inducible malate synthase.	In the course of a study conducted to isolate genes upregulated by plant cell wall sugars, we identified an arabinose-inducible locus from a transcriptional fusion library of Rhizobium leguminosarum VF39, carrying random insertions of the lacZ transposon Tn5B22. Sequence analysis of the locus disrupted by the transposon revealed a high similarity to uncharacterized malate synthase G genes from Sinorhizobium meliloti, Agrobacterium tumefaciens, and Mesorhizobium loti. This enzyme catalyzes the condensation of glyoxylate and acetyl-CoA to yield malate and CoA and is thought to be a component of the glyoxylate cycle, which allows microorganisms to grow on two carbon compounds. Enzyme assays showed that a functional malate synthase is encoded in the glcB gene of R. leguminosarum and that its expression is induced by arabinose, glycolate, and glyoxylate. An Escherichia coli aceB glcB mutant, complemented with the R. leguminosarum PCR-amplified gene, recovered malate synthase activity. A very similar genome organization of the loci containing malate synthase and flanking genes was observed in R. leguminosarum, S. meliloti, and A. tumefaciens. Pea plants inoculated with the glcB mutant or the wild-type strain showed no significant differences in nitrogen fixation. This is the first report regarding the characterization of a mutant in one of the glyoxylate cycle enzymes in the rhizobia.	2002 Oct	García-de los Santos, Alejandro; García-de los Santos, A; García-de los Santos; Morales, Alejandro; Morales, A; Morales; Baldomá, Laura; Baldomá, L; Baldomá; Clark, Scott R D; Clark, SR; Clark; Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; Yost, Christopher K; Yost, CK; Yost; Hernández-Lucas, Ismael; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Aguilar, Juan; Aguilar, J; Aguilar; Hynes, Michael F; Hynes, MF; Hynes	Can J Microbiol
12209264	Mesorhizobium amorphae, a rhizobial species that nodulates Amorpha fruticosa, is native to American soils.	Amorpha fruticosa was inoculated with rhizosphere soil from Iowa, USA, and 140 rhizobia isolated from root nodules were compared with Mesorhizobium amorphae originating from Chinese soils. PCR-RFLP patterns of the 16S rRNA gene from the isolates and from M. amorphaewere the same. All isolates had a symbiotic plasmid of the same size with a single nifHgene. DNA:DNA hybridization values, DNA G+C content, and induced Nod factor patterns also were similar. We concluded that the four genotypes distinguished among 53 representative American isolates were M. amorphae. Since A. fruticosa is native to the Americas and is highly specific in its nodulation requirement, M. amorphae probably was transmitted to China.	2002 Oct	Wang, En Tao; Wang, ET; Wang; Rogel, M Antonio; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Sui, Xin Hua; Sui, XH; Sui; Chen, Wen Xin; Chen, WX; Chen; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; van Berkum, Peter; van Berkum, P; van Berkum	Arch Microbiol
12139618	Identification of a gene required for the biosynthesis of ornithine-derived lipids.	Phospholipids are the membrane-forming constituents in all living organisms. In addition to phosphorus-containing lipids, the membranes of numerous bacteria contain significant amounts of phosphorus-free polar lipids, often derived from amino acids. Although lipids derived from the amino acid ornithine are widespread among bacteria, their biosynthesis is unknown. Here, we describe the isolation of mutants of Sinorhizobium meliloti deficient in the biosynthesis of ornithine-derived lipids (OL). Complementation of such mutants with a sinorhi-zobial cosmid gene bank, subcloning of the complementing fragment and sequencing of the subclone led to the identification of a gene (olsA) coding for a presumptive acyltransferase. Amplification of this gene and its expression in OL-deficient mutant backgrounds of S. meliloti demonstrates that it is required for OL biosynthesis. An OL-deficient mutant of S. meliloti disrupted in olsA shows wild type-like growth behaviour and is capable of inducing nitrogen-fixing nodules on legume hosts. A lyso-ornithine lipid-dependent acyltransferase activity forming OL requires acyl-AcpP as the acyl donor and expression of the olsA gene.	2002 Aug	Weissenmayer, Barbara; Weissenmayer, B; Weissenmayer; Gao, Jun-Lian; Gao, JL; Gao; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	Mol Microbiol
12361275	Sinorhizobium morelense sp. nov., a Leucaena leucocephala-associated bacterium that is highly resistant to multiple antibiotics.	Sinorhizobium morelense sp. nov. is described to designate a group of bacteria isolated from root nodules of Leucaena leucocephala. S. morelense shows 98% 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity to some Sinorhizobium species and to Ensifer adhaerens. This novel species is distinguished from other Sinorhizobium species and from E. adhaerens by DNA-DNA hybridization, 165 rRNA gene restriction fragments and sequence and some distinctive phenotypic features. Strains of this species are highly resistant to some antibiotics, such as carbenicillin (1 mg ml(-1)), kanamycin (500 microg ml(-1)) and erythromycin (300 microg ml(-1)). They do not form nodules, but a nodulating strain, Lc57, is closely related to the novel species. Strain Lc04T (= LMG 21331T = CFN E1007T) is designated as the type strain of this novel species.	2002 Sep	Wang, En Tao; Wang, ET; Wang; Tan, Zhi Yuan; Tan, ZY; Tan; Willems, Anne; Willems, A; Willems; Fernández-López, Manuel; Fernández-López, M; Fernández-López; Reinhold-Hurek, Barbara; Reinhold-Hurek, B; Reinhold-Hurek; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
12115061	Diversity of rhizobia from nodules of the leguminous tree Gliricidia sepium, a natural host of Rhizobium tropici.	The Rhizobium species that nodulate the legume tree Gliricidia sepium were analyzed by phenotypic characteristics (including nodule formation in different hosts), PCR-RFLP patterns and sequences of 16S rRNA genes, multilocus enzyme electrophoresis, and plasmid patterns. Strains of Rhizobium tropici type A and B, Sinorhizobium spp., and Rhizobium etli bv. phaseoli were encountered in G. sepium nodules and their presence depended on the site sampled.	2002 Aug	Acosta-Durán, Carlos; Acosta-Durán, C; Acosta-Durán; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Arch Microbiol
12107597	Analysis of the cellular functions of Escherichia coli operons and their conservation in Bacillus subtilis.	The common assumption of operons as composed of genes that cooperate in a biological process is confirmed here by showing that Escherichia coli operons tend to be composed of genes that belong to the same general class of cellular function. Furthermore, the comparison between the genomic organization of E. coli and that of Bacillus subtilis shows that the genes that are homologous to genes that belong to experimentally characterized E. coli operons tend to cluster in neighboring regions of the genome. This tendency is greater for the subset of E. coli operons whose genes belong to a single functional class. These observations indicate strong evolutionary pressure that, translated into functional constraints, leads to the inclusion of many essential functions in conserved operons and clusters in these two distant species.	2002 Aug	de Daruvar, Antoine; de Daruvar, A; de Daruvar; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Valencia, Alfonso; Valencia, A; Valencia	J Mol Evol
12118889	Rhizobium etli mutant modulates carbon and nitrogen metabolism in Phaseolus vulgaris nodules.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the biochemical events in root nodules which lead to increased yield when bean is inoculated with a Rhizobium etli mutant (CFN037) having increased respiratory capacity. CFN037-inoculated plants had 22% more nitrogen (N) than did wild-type (CE3)-inoculated plants. Root nodule enzymes involved in nodule carbon and nitrogen assimilation as well as in ureides and amides synthesis were assessed in plants inoculated with CFN037 and the CE3. Our results show that the xylem ureides content was lower while that of amino acids was higher in CFN037- compared with CE3-inoculated plants. Supporting these results, enzymes involved in ureide synthesis were reduced while activity of aspartate aminotransferase, glutamate synthase, sucrose synthase, and glucose-6-P dehydrogenase were increased in CFN037-induced nodules. Glutamate synthase and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase transcripts were detected early in the development of nodules induced by CFN037 compared with CE3. However, plants inoculated with strain CE3-vhb, which express the Vitreoscilla sp. hemoglobin and also displays increased respiratory capacity, did not have altered ureide transport in N2-fixing plants. The data suggest that inoculation with special selected mutant strains of R. etli can modulate nodule N assimilation and N transport compounds.	2002 Jul	Silvente, Sonia; Silvente, S; Silvente; Blanco, Lourdes; Blanco, L; Blanco; Camas, Alberto; Camas, A; Camas; Ortega, José-Luis; Ortega, JL; Ortega; Ramírez, Mario; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Lara-Flores, Miguel; Lara-Flores, M; Lara-Flores	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
12057950	The Rhizobium etli cyaC product: characterization of a novel adenylate cyclase class.	Adenylate cyclases (ACs) catalyze the formation of 3',5'-cyclic AMP (cAMP) from ATP. A novel AC-encoding gene, cyaC, was isolated from Rhizobium etli by phenotypic complementation of an Escherichia coli cya mutant. The functionality of the cyaC gene was corroborated by its ability to restore cAMP accumulation in an E. coli cya mutant. Further, overexpression of a malE::cyaC fusion protein allowed the detection of significant AC activity levels in cell extracts of an E. coli cya mutant. CyaC is unrelated to any known AC or to any other protein exhibiting a currently known function. Thus, CyaC represents the first member of a novel class of ACs (class VI). Hypothetical genes of unknown function similar to cyaC have been identified in the genomes of the related bacterial species Mesorhizobium loti, Sinorhizobium meliloti, and Agrobacterium tumefaciens. The cyaC gene is cotranscribed with a gene similar to ohr of Xanthomonas campestris and is expressed only in the presence of organic hydroperoxides. The physiological performance of an R. etli cyaC mutant was indistinguishable from that of the wild-type parent strain both under free-living conditions and during symbiosis.	2002 Jul	Téllez-Sosa, Juan; Téllez-Sosa, J; Téllez-Sosa; Soberón, Nora; Soberón, N; Soberón; Vega-Segura, Alicia; Vega-Segura, A; Vega-Segura; Torres-Márquez, María E; Torres-Márquez, ME; Torres-Márquez; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	J Bacteriol
11976134	Conservation of plasmid-encoded traits among bean-nodulating Rhizobium species.	Rhizobium etli type strain CFN42 contains six plasmids. We analyzed the distribution of genetic markers from some of these plasmids in bean-nodulating strains belonging to different species (Rhizobium etli, Rhizobium gallicum, Rhizobium giardinii, Rhizobium leguminosarum, and Sinorhizobium fredii). Our results indicate that independent of geographic origin, R. etli strains usually share not only the pSym plasmid but also other plasmids containing symbiosis-related genes, with a similar organization. In contrast, strains belonging to other bean-nodulating species seem to have acquired only the pSym plasmid from R. etli.	2002 May	Brom, Susana; Brom, S; Brom; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; García-de los Santos, Alejandro; García-de los Santos, A; García-de los Santos; Sanjuan-Pinilla, Julio M; Sanjuan-Pinilla, JM; Sanjuan-Pinilla; Olivares, José; Olivares, J; Olivares; Sanjuan, Juan; Sanjuan, J; Sanjuan	Appl Environ Microbiol
12036273	Expression of different calmodulin genes in bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.): role of nod factor on calmodulin gene regulation.	Three calmodulin (PvCaM-1, PvCaM-2, and PvCaM-3) clones were isolated from a Phaseolus vulgaris nodule cDNA library. All clones contain the complete coding region and are 62 to 74% homologous within this region. Compared to plant CaM consensus sequences, PvCaM-2 has a novel tyrosine118 residue, representing a putative phosphorylation site. Southern analysis suggested that calmodulin is encoded by a gene family. These three CaM clones are expressed mainly in young tissues and meristems. The expression pattern of PvCaM-2 and PvCaM-3 is almost identical but different from that of PvCaM-1, suggesting that PvCaM-1 is a well-defined CaM gene, whereas PvCaM-2 and PvCaM-3 could be alleles. PvCaM clones are expressed early in nodules, and transcript levels increase from nodule primordia to nodule-like structures induced by the Nod factor. Conversely, in roots, Nod factor lowers mRNA levels of all three PvCaM clones, but especially of PvCaM-1. Inhibition of PvCaM-1 expression also is observed when 2,3,5-triiodobenzoic acid is added and is prevented when roots are treated with indole-3-acetic acid, suggesting that PvCaM-1 regulation is related to the Nod factor inhibition of polar auxin transport. These results could suggest that CaM clones do not participate in the early signaling generated by the Nod factor but do participate in early events of nodule formation.	2002 May	Camas, Alberto; Camas, A; Camas; Cárdenas, Luis; Cárdenas, L; Cárdenas; Quinto, Carmen; Quinto, C; Quinto; Lara, Miguel; Lara, M; Lara	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
11914361	AniA regulates reserve polymer accumulation and global protein expression in Rhizobium etli.	Previously, it was reported that the oxidative capacity and ability to grow on carbon sources such as pyruvate and glucose were severely diminished in the Rhizobium etli phaC::OmegaSm(r)/Sp(r) mutant CAR1, which is unable to synthesize poly-beta-hydroxybutyric acid (PHB) (M. A. Cevallos, S. Encarnación, A. Leija, Y. Mora, and J. Mora, J. Bacteriol. 178:1646-1654, 1996). By random Tn5 mutagenesis of the phaC strain, we isolated the mutants VEM57 and VEM58, both of which contained single Tn5 insertions and had recovered the ability to grow on pyruvate or glucose. Nucleotide sequencing of the region surrounding the Tn5 insertions showed that they had interrupted an open reading frame designated aniA based on its high deduced amino acid sequence identity to the aniA gene product of Sinorhizobium meliloti. R. etli aniA was located adjacent to and divergently transcribed from genes encoding the PHB biosynthetic enzymes beta-ketothiolase (PhaA) and acetoacetyl coenzyme A reductase (PhaB). An aniA::Tn5 mutant (VEM5854) was constructed and found to synthesize only 40% of the wild type level of PHB. Both VEM58 and VEM5854 produced significantly more extracellular polysaccharide than the wild type. Organic acid excretion and levels of intracellular reduced nucleotides were lowered to wild-type levels in VEM58 and VEM5854, in contrast to those of strain CAR1, which were significantly elevated. Proteome analysis of VEM58 showed a drastic alteration of protein expression, including the absence of a protein identified as PhaB. We propose that the aniA gene product plays an important role in directing carbon flow in R. etli.	2002 Apr	Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; del Carmen Vargas, María; del Carmen Vargas, M; del Carmen Vargas; Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Dávalos, Araceli; Dávalos, A; Dávalos; Mendoza, Guillermo; Mendoza, G; Mendoza; Mora, Yolanda; Mora, Y; Mora; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
11914362	Effect of aniA (carbon flux regulator) and PhaC (poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate synthase) mutations on pyruvate metabolism in Rhizobium etli.	The Rhizobium etli poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate synthase (PhaC) mutant SAM100 grows poorly with pyruvate as the carbon source. The inactivation of aniA, encoding a global carbon flux regulator, in SAM100 restores growth of the resulting double mutant (VEM58) on pyruvate. Pyruvate carboxylase (PYC) activity, pyc gene transcription, and holoenzyme content, which were low in SAM100, were restored in strain VEM58. The genetically engineered overexpression of PYC in SAM100 also allowed its growth on pyruvate. The possible relation between AniA, pyc transcription, and reduced-nucleotide levels is discussed.	2002 Apr	Dunn, Michael F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Araíza, Gisela; Araíza, G; Araíza; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; del Carmen Vargas, María; del Carmen Vargas, M; del Carmen Vargas; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
12030700	A N2-fixing endophytic Burkholderia sp. associated with maize plants cultivated in Mexico.	In the frame of a survey of potentially endophytic N2-fixing Burkholderia associated with maize in Mexico, its country of origin, the soil of an indigenous maize field near Oaxaca was studied. Under laboratory conditions, plant seedlings of two ancient maize varieties were used as a trap to select endophyte candidates from the soil sample. Among the N2 fixers isolated from inside plant tissues and able to grow on PCAT medium, the most abundant isolates belonged to genus Burkholderia (API 20NE, rrs sequences). Representative isolates obtained from roots and shoots of different plants appeared identical (rrs and nifH RFLP), showing that they were closely related. In addition, their 16S rDNA sequences differed from described Burkholderia species and, phylogenetically, they constituted a separate deep-branching new lineage in genus Burkholderia. This indicated that these isolates probably constituted a new species. An inoculation experiment confirmed that these N2-fixing Burkholderia isolates could densely colonize the plant tissues of maize. More isolates of this group were subsequently obtained from field-grown maize and teosinte plants. It was hypothesized that strains of this species had developed a sort of primitive symbiosis with one of their host plants, teosinte, which persisted during the domestication of teosinte into maize.	2002 Apr	Estrada, Paulina; Estrada, P; Estrada; Mavingui, Patrick; Mavingui, P; Mavingui; Cournoyer, Benoit; Cournoyer, B; Cournoyer; Fontaine, Fanette; Fontaine, F; Fontaine; Balandreau, Jacques; Balandreau, J; Balandreau; Caballero-Mellado, Jesus; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	Can J Microbiol
11975504	Comparative study of differentiation levels and valepotriate content of in vitro cultures and regenerated and wild plants of Valeriana edulis ssp.procera.	Valepotriate content levels in samples of in vitro cultures of Valeriana edulis ssp. procera were compared with those of roots and rhizomes of wild plants in the reproductive stage. Rhizomes and roots of regenerated and wild plants showed a similar valepotriate content. The data obtained support the hypothesis that valepotriate production in V. edulis spp. procera is closely related to rhizome and root differentiation. The large-scale propagation of this endangered plant may offer an attractive alternative for its production for medicinal purposes.	2002 Apr	Castillo, Patricia; Castillo, P; Castillo; Zamilpa, Alejandro; Zamilpa, A; Zamilpa; Márquez, Judith; Márquez, J; Márquez; Hernández, Georgina; Hernández, G; Hernández; Lara, Miguel; Lara, M; Lara; Alvarez, Laura; Alvarez, L; Alvarez	J Nat Prod
11897025	Evaluation of thresholds for the detection of binding sites for regulatory proteins in Escherichia coli K12 DNA.	Sites in DNA that bind regulatory proteins can be detected computationally in various ways. Pattern discovery methods analyze collections of genes suspected to be co-regulated on the evidence, for example, of clustering of transcriptome data. Pattern searching methods use sequences with known binding sites to find other genes regulated by a given protein. Such computational methods are important strategies in the discovery and elaboration of regulatory networks and can provide the experimental biologist with a precise prediction of a binding site or identify a gene as a member of a set of co-regulated genes (a regulon). As more variations on such methods are published, however, thorough evaluation is necessary, as performance may differ depending on the conditions of use. Detailed evaluation also helps to improve and understand the behavior of the different methods and computational strategies.	2002	Benítez-Bellón, Esperanza; Benítez-Bellón, E; Benítez-Bellón; Moreno-Hagelsieb, Gabriel; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Genome Biol
11959430	Rhizobial acyl carrier proteins and their roles in the formation of bacterial cell-surface components that are required for the development of nitrogen-fixing root nodules on legume hosts.	Acyl carrier protein (ACP) of Escherichia coli is a small acidic protein which functions as carrier of growing acyl chains during their biosynthesis and as donor of acyl chains during transfer to target molecules. This unique ACP of E. coli is expressed constitutively. In more complex bacteria, multiple ACPs are present, indicating a channeling of pools of multi-carbon units into different biosynthetic routes. In rhizobia, for example, besides the constitutive ACP (AcpP) involved in the biosynthesis and transfer of common fatty acids, three specialized ACPs have been reported: (1) the flavonoid-inducible nodulation protein NodF, (2) AcpXL that transfers 27-hydroxyoctacosanoic acid to a sugar backbone during lipid A biosynthesis, and (3) the RkpF protein which is required for the biosynthesis of rhizobial capsular polysaccharides. All three of those specialized rhizobial ACPs are required for the biosynthesis of cell-surface molecules that play a role in establishing the symbiotic relationship between rhizobia and their legume hosts. Surprisingly, the recently sequenced genomes from Mesorhizobium loti and Sinorhizobium meliloti suggest even more candidates for ACPs in rhizobia.	2002 Mar	Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger; López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara	FEMS Microbiol Lett
11741857	Dynamics of genome architecture in Rhizobium sp. strain NGR234.	Bacterial genomes are usually partitioned in several replicons, which are dynamic structures prone to mutation and genomic rearrangements, thus contributing to genome evolution. Nevertheless, much remains to be learned about the origins and dynamics of the formation of bacterial alternative genomic states and their possible biological consequences. To address these issues, we have studied the dynamics of the genome architecture in Rhizobium sp. strain NGR234 and analyzed its biological significance. NGR234 genome consists of three replicons: the symbiotic plasmid pNGR234a (536,165 bp), the megaplasmid pNGR234b (>2,000 kb), and the chromosome (>3,700 kb). Here we report that genome analyses of cell siblings showed the occurrence of large-scale DNA rearrangements consisting of cointegrations and excisions between the three replicons. As a result, four new genomic architectures have emerged. Three consisted of the cointegrates between two replicons: chromosome-pNGR234a, chromosome-pNGR234b, and pNGR234a-pNGR234b. The other consisted of a cointegrate of the three replicons (chromosome-pNGR234a-pNGR234b). Cointegration and excision of pNGR234a with either the chromosome or pNGR234b were studied and found to proceed via a Campbell-type mechanism, mediated by insertion sequence elements. We provide evidence showing that changes in the genome architecture did not alter the growth and symbiotic proficiency of Rhizobium derivatives.	2002 Jan	Mavingui, Patrick; Mavingui, P; Mavingui; Flores, Margarita; Flores, M; Flores; Guo, Xianwu; Guo, X; Guo; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila; Perret, Xavier; Perret, X; Perret; Broughton, William J; Broughton, WJ; Broughton; Palacios, Rafael; Palacios, R; Palacios	J Bacteriol
12066843	Operon conservation from the point of view of Escherichia coli, and inference of functional interdependence of gene products from genome context.	We have previously demonstrated that genes within experimentally characterized operons of Escherichia coli are conserved together in other genomes more frequently than genes at the borders of transcription units. Here we expand the analyses and show that, as the phylogenetic distance of the genomes compared increases, the genes remaining together must belong to genes associated into operons in other prokaryotes regardless of the operon organization of the corresponding orthologous gene pair of E. coli. At the same time, we show that the observed tendencies of genes within operons to keep very short inter-genic distances in E. coli, is the same in any other prokaryote whose genome is currently available. We also show the relationship between our analyses of conservation and the inference of functional relationships from genomic context.	2002	Moreno-Hagelsieb, Gabriel; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	In Silico Biol
11752253	The EcoCyc Database.	EcoCyc is an organism-specific pathway/genome database that describes the metabolic and signal-transduction pathways of Escherichia coli, its enzymes, its transport proteins and its mechanisms of transcriptional control of gene expression. EcoCyc is queried using the Pathway Tools graphical user interface, which provides a wide variety of query operations and visualization tools. EcoCyc is available at http://ecocyc.org/.	2002 Jan	Karp, Peter D; Karp, PD; Karp; Riley, Monica; Riley, M; Riley; Saier, Milton; Saier, M; Saier; Paulsen, Ian T; Paulsen, IT; Paulsen; Collado-Vides, Julio; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Paley, Suzanne M; Paley, SM; Paley; Pellegrini-Toole, Alida; Pellegrini-Toole, A; Pellegrini-Toole; Bonavides, César; Bonavides, C; Bonavides; Gama-Castro, Socorro; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro	Nucleic Acids Res
11717256	Regulation of gene expression in response to oxygen in Rhizobium etli: role of FnrN in fixNOQP expression and in symbiotic nitrogen fixation.	Previously, we reported finding duplicated fixNOQP operons in Rhizobium etli CFN42. One of these duplicated operons is located in the symbiotic plasmid (fixNOQPd), while the other is located in a cryptic plasmid (fixNOQPf). Although a novel FixL-FixKf regulatory cascade participates in microaerobic expression of both fixNOQP duplicated operons, we found that a mutation in fixL eliminates fixNOQPf expression but has only a moderate effect on expression of fixNOQPd. This suggests that there are differential regulatory controls. Interestingly, only the fixNOQPd operon was essential for symbiotic nitrogen fixation (L. Girard, S. Brom, A. Dávalos, O. Lopez, M. Soberón, and D. Romero, Mol. Plant-Microbe Interact. 13:1283-1292, 2000). Searching for potential candidates responsible for the differential expression, we characterized two fnrN homologs (encoding transcriptional activators of the cyclic AMP receptor protein [CRP]-Fnr family) in R. etli CFN42. One of these genes (fnrNd) is located on the symbiotic plasmid, while the other (fnrNchr) is located on the chromosome. Analysis of the expression of the fnrN genes using transcriptional fusions with lacZ showed that the two fnrN genes are differentially regulated, since only fnrNd is expressed in microaerobic cultures of the wild-type strain while fnrNchr is negatively controlled by FixL. Mutagenesis of the two fnrN genes showed that both genes participate, in conjunction with FixL-FixKf, in the microaerobic induction of the fixNOQPd operon. Participation of these genes is also seen during the symbiotic process, in which mutations in fnrNd and fnrNchr, either singly or in combination, lead to reductions in nitrogen fixation. Therefore, R. etli employs a regulatory circuit for induction of the fixNOQPd operon that involves at least three transcriptional regulators of the CRP-Fnr family. This regulatory circuit may be important for ensuring optimal production of the cbb(3), terminal oxidase during symbiosis.	2001 Dec	Lopez, O; Lopez, O; Lopez; Morera, C; Morera, C; Morera; Miranda-Rios, J; Miranda-Rios, J; Miranda-Rios; Girard, L; Girard, L; Girard; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Soberón, M; Soberón, M; Soberón	J Bacteriol
11702077	Cloning and characterization of the pyruvate carboxylase from Sinorhizobium meliloti Rm1021.	The gene encoding pyruvate carboxylase (pyc) was isolated from a Sinorhizobium meliloti Rm1021 cosmid bank by complementation of a Rhizobium tropici pyc mutant. PYC-negative mutants of S. meliloti Rm1021 were isolated by transposon mutagenesis and were unable to grow with glucose or pyruvate as sole carbon sources, but were symbiotically competent in combination with alfalfa plants. PYC activity assays, pyc::lacZ gene fusion studies and an in vivo biotinylation assay showed that PYC activity in S. meliloti was dependent mainly on biotin availability and not on changes in gene transcription. The subunit and holo-enzyme molecular masses of the S. meliloti PYC indicated that the enzyme was an alpha4 homotetramer. The S. meliloti PYC had a high apparent Ka (0.23 mM) for the allosteric activator acetyl-CoA and was product-inhibited by sub-millimolar concentrations of oxaloacetate. In contrast to other bacterial alpha4-PYCs which have been characterized, the S. meliloti enzyme was not strongly inhibited by L-aspartate.	2001 Nov	Dunn, M F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Araíza, G; Araíza, G; Araíza; Finan, T M; Finan, TM; Finan	Arch Microbiol
11718894	Cloning and expression analysis of hemoglobin genes from maize (Zea mays ssp. mays) and teosinte (Zea mays ssp. parviglumis).	With the exception of barley and rice, little is known about the existence of hemoglobins (Hbs) in cereals. This work reports the cloning and analysis of hb genes from maize (Zea mays ssp. mays) and teosinte (Zea mays ssp. parviglumis). Coding sequences of maize and teosinte hb genes (hbm and hbt, respectively) are highly similar to each other and are interrupted by three introns located at identical positions as other plant hb genes. Sequences of predicted Hbm and Hbt proteins are identical. The hydropathic profile of Hbm and Hbt is highly similar to that of rice Hb1, suggesting that Hbm, Hbt and Hb1 have the same tertiary structure and biochemical properties. Expression analysis showed that low levels of Hb transcripts, but considerable levels of Hb proteins exist in maize embryonic organs. No Hb transcripts and proteins were detected in teosinte embryonic organs. Low levels of Hb proteins, but no Hb transcripts, were detected in maize and teosinte vegetative organs. These observations suggest that the regulation of hb genes is different in maize and teosinte embryonic organs, and that the expression of hb genes is down- or up-regulated in maize and teosinte, respectively, from germination to vegetative growing.	2001 Nov	Aréchaga-Ocampo, E; Aréchaga-Ocampo, E; Aréchaga-Ocampo; Saenz-Rivera, J; Saenz-Rivera, J; Saenz-Rivera; Sarath, G; Sarath, G; Sarath; Klucas, R V; Klucas, RV; Klucas; Arredondo-Peter, R; Arredondo-Peter, R; Arredondo-Peter	Biochim Biophys Acta
11604446	Transgenic tobacco plants that overexpress alfalfa NADH-glutamate synthase have higher carbon and nitrogen content.	This work reports the characterization of transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) plants that constitutively overexpress NADH-GOGAT. Three independent transformants, designated GOS10, GOS13 and GOS19 (for GOGAT sense), with stable integration of the chimeric alfalfa NADH-GOGAT gene fused to the CaMV 35S promoter were studied. The transgene was stably integrated and inherited by the progeny. In these GOS lines, the expression of NADH-GOGAT mRNA and protein was detected at low levels in roots and leaves, while the expression of the host tobacco NADH-GOGAT gene was nearly undetectable. The roots of GOS lines showed an elevated (15-40%) enzyme activity as compared to control plants. When GOS plants were grown under greenhouse conditions and fed with either nitrate or ammonium as the sole nitrogen source, they showed higher total carbon and nitrogen content in shoots and increased shoot dry weight when plants were entering into the flowering stage, as compared to control plants. The observed phenotype of GOS plants was interpreted as reflecting a higher capacity to assimilate nitrogen due to a higher NADH-GOGAT activity.	2001 Nov	Chichkova, S; Chichkova, S; Chichkova; Arellano, J; Arellano, J; Arellano; Vance, C P; Vance, CP; Vance; Hernández, G; Hernández, G; Hernández	J Exp Bot
11566387	Genetic diversity of rhizobia isolated from Astragalus adsurgens growing in different geographical regions of China.	The genetic diversity among 95 isolates from Astragalus adsurgens was investigated using molecular biological methods. All of the isolates and 24 reference strains could be differentiated by AFLP, REP-, ERIC- and BOX-PCR fingerprinting analysis. By cluster analysis of the data, 31 AFLP and 38 Rep-PCR genomic groups were delineated, indicating considerable genetic diversity among the isolates. Fifty-four representative strains were further analyzed by RFLP of PCR-amplified 16S and 23S rDNA, revealing 26 rDNA genotypes among the isolates. The phylogenetic relationship of the isolates was determined by partial sequencing of 16S rRNA genes of 16 strains. The results suggest that the A. adsurgens rhizobia belong to the genera Agrobacterium, Mesorhizobium, Rhizobium and Sinorhizobium.	2001 Oct	Gao, J; Gao, J; Gao; Terefework, Z; Terefework, Z; Terefework; Chen, W; Chen, W; Chen; Lindström, K; Lindström, K; Lindström	J Biotechnol
11566384	Natural endophytic association between Rhizobium etli and maize (Zea mays L.).	Maize (Zea mays) and bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) have been traditionally grown in association for thousands of years in Mesoamerica. From surface sterilized maize roots, we have isolated over 60 Rhizobium strains that correspond to Rhizobium etli bv. phaseoli (the main symbiont of bean) on the basis of 16S rRNA gene restriction patterns, metabolic enzyme electropherotypes, organization of nif genes, and the ability to nodulate beans. The colonization capacity of some of the isolates was tested with an unimproved maize cultivar and with 30 maize land races. Increases in plant dry weight upon R. etli inoculation were recorded with some of the land races, and these increases may be related to plant growth promotion effects. Additionally, from within maize grown in monoculture we have also recovered R. etli isolates recognizable by their 16S rRNA gene types, which lack nif genes and are incapable of nodulating bean. These strains are presumed to correspond to the earlier described non-symbiotic R. etli obtained from bean rhizosphere.	2001 Oct	Gutiérrez-Zamora, M L; Gutiérrez-Zamora, ML; Gutiérrez-Zamora; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	J Biotechnol
11566392	Novel pathway for phosphatidylcholine biosynthesis in bacteria associated with eukaryotes.	Phosphatidylcholine (PC) is the major membrane-forming phospholipid in eukaryotes and can be synthesised by either of two pathways, the CDP-choline pathway or the methylation pathway. Many prokaryotes lack PC, but it can be found in significant amounts in membranes of distantly related bacteria such as Rhizobacteria and Spirochetes. Enzymatic methylation of phosphatidylethanolamine via the methylation pathway was thought to be the only biosynthetic pathway to yield PC in bacteria. However, a novel choline-dependent pathway for PC biosynthesis has been discovered in Sinorhizobium meliloti. In this pathway, a novel enzymatic activity, PC synthase, condenses choline directly with CDP-diacylglyceride to form PC in one step. Surprisingly, genomes of some pathogens (Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Borrelia burgdorferi and Legionella pneumophila) contain genes similar to the sinorhizobial gene for phosphatidylcholine synthase. We, therefore, suggest that the new PC synthase pathway is present in a number of bacteria displaying symbiotic or pathogenic associations with eukaryotes and that the eukaryotic host functions as the provider of choline for this pathway.	2001 Oct	López-Lara, I M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, O; Geiger, O; Geiger	J Biotechnol
11679078	RepA negatively autoregulates the transcription of the repABC operon of the Rhizobium etli symbiotic plasmid basic replicon.	The basic replicon of Rhizobium etli CE3, like other members of the repABC plasmid family, is constituted by the repABC operon. RepC is essential for replication, and RepA and RepB play a role in plasmid segregation. It has been shown that deletion derivatives lacking the repAB genes have an increased copy number, indicating that these genes participate in the control of plasmid copy number. RepA is also a trans-incompatibility factor. To understand the regulation of the repABC operon, in this paper: (i) the transcription start site of the repABC operon was determined; (ii) the promoter region was identified by site-directed mutagenesis of the putative -35 and -10 hexameric elements; and (iii) RepA was recognized as a negative regulator of the transcription of the repABC operon.	2001 Oct	Ramírez-Romero, M A; Ramírez-Romero, MA; Ramírez-Romero; Téllez-Sosa, J; Téllez-Sosa, J; Téllez-Sosa; Barrios, H; Barrios, H; Barrios; Pérez-Oseguera, A; Pérez-Oseguera, A; Pérez-Oseguera; Rosas, V; Rosas, V; Rosas; Cevallos, M A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	Mol Microbiol
11467726	Identification of a system that allows a Rhizobium tropici dctA mutant to grow on succinate, but not on other C4-dicarboxylates.	A defined insertion mutant of a gene encoding a homolog of the rhizobial C4-dicarboxylate permease (dctA) was constructed in Rhizobium tropici strain CIAT899. This mutant (GA1) was unable to grow on fumarate or malate; however, in contrast with other rhizobial dctA mutants, it retained a limited ability to grow on succinate with ammonia as a nitrogen source. Our results suggest the presence of a novel succinate-specific transport system in R. tropici. Biochemical characterization indicated that this alternative transport system in GAI is active and dependent on an energized membrane. It was also induced by succinate and aspartate, and was repressed by glucose and glycerol. Bean plants inoculated with GA1 showed a reduced nitrogen-fixing ability, achieving only 29% of the acetylene reduction activity determined in CIAT899 strain nodules, 33 days after inoculation. Also, bean plants inoculated with GA1 had reduced shoot dry weight compared with plants inoculated with the wild-type strain.	2001 Jun	Batista, S; Batista, S; Batista; Catalán, A I; Catalán, AI; Catalán; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Aguilar, O M; Aguilar, OM; Aguilar; Martínez-Drets, G; Martínez-Drets, G; Martínez-Drets	Can J Microbiol
11523004	Common history at the origin of the position-function correlation in transcriptional regulators in archaea and bacteria.	Regulatory proteins in Escherichia coli with a helix-turn-helix (HTH) DNA binding motif show a position-function correlation such that repressors have this motif predominantly at the N terminus, whereas activators have the motif at the C-terminus extreme. Using this initial collection we identified by sequence comparison the exhaustive set of transcriptional regulators in 17 bacterial and 6 archaeal genomes. This enlarged set shows the same position-function correlation. The main question we address is whether this correlation is the result of common origin in evolution or the result of convergence. Evidence is presented supporting a common history at the origin of this correlation. We show the existence of a supergroup of eight repressor protein families sharing a conserved extended sequence comprising the classic HTH. Two of these repressor families (MarR and AsnC) originated before the divergence of Archaea and Bacteria. They are proposed at the origin of HTH-bearing transcriptional regulators currently present in Bacteria. The group of LysR proteins, with the HTH also at the N terminus, offers a control to the argument, since it shows clearly distinctive structural, functional, and evolutionary properties. This group of activator proteins, suggested to have originated within the Bacteria, has an advantageous gene organization to facilitate its horizontal transfer-used to conquer some Archaea-as well as negative autoregulation convenient for homeostasis, all of which agrees with this being the largest family in Bacteria. These results suggest that if shuffling of motifs occurred in Bacteria, it occurred only early in the history of these proteins, as opposed to what is observed in eukaryotic regulators.	2001 Sep	Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	J Mol Evol
11425750	Nitrogen-fixing nodules with Ensifer adhaerens harboring Rhizobium tropici symbiotic plasmids.	Ensifer adhaerens is a soil bacterium that attaches to other bacteria and may cause lysis of these other bacteria. Based on the sequence of its small-subunit rRNA gene, E. adhaerens is related to Sinorhizobium spp. E. adhaerens ATCC 33499 did not nodulate Phaseolus vulgaris (bean) or Leucaena leucocephala, but with symbiotic plasmids from Rhizobium tropici CFN299 it formed nitrogen-fixing nodules on both hosts. The nodule isolates were identified as E. adhaerens isolates by growth on selective media.	2001 Jul	Rogel, M A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Kuykendall, L D; Kuykendall, LD; Kuykendall; Balkwill, D L; Balkwill, DL; Balkwill; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero	Appl Environ Microbiol
11491326	Novel nitrogen-fixing acetic acid bacteria, Gluconacetobacter johannae sp. nov. and Gluconacetobacter azotocaptans sp. nov., associated with coffee plants.	Diazotrophic bacteria were isolated, in two different years, from the rhizosphere and rhizoplane of coffee (Coffea arabica L.) plants cultivated in Mexico; they were designated as type DOR and type SAd isolates. They showed characteristics of the family Acetobacteraceae, having some features in common with Gluconacetobacter (formerly Acetobacter) diazotrophicus, the only known N2-fixing species of the acetic acid bacteria, but they differed from this species with regard to several characteristics. Type DOR isolates can be differentiated phenotypically from type SAd isolates. Type DOR isolates and type SAd isolates can both be differentiated from Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus by their growth features on culture media, their use of amino acids as nitrogen sources and their carbon-source usage. These results, together with the electrophoretic mobility patterns of metabolic enzymes and amplified rDNA restriction analysis, suggested that the type DOR and type SAd isolates represent two novel N2-fixing species. Comparative analysis of the 16S rRNA sequences revealed that strains CFN-Cf55T (type DOR isolate) and CFN-Ca54T (type SAd isolate) were closer to Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus (both strains had sequence similarities of 98.3%) than to Gluconacetobacter liquefaciens, Gluconacetobacter sacchari (similarities < 98%) or any other acetobacteria. Strain CFN-Cf55T exhibited low levels of DNA-DNA reassociation with type SAd isolates (mean 42%) and strain CFN-Ca54T exhibited mean DNA-DNA reassociation of 39.5% with type DOR isolates. Strains CFN-Cf55T and CFN-Ca54T exhibited very low DNA reassociation levels, 7-21%, with other closely related acetobacterial species. On the basis of these results, two novel N2-fixing species are proposed for the family Acetobacteraceae, Gluconacetobacter johannae sp. nov. (for the type DOR isolates), with strain CFN-Cf55T (= ATCC 700987T = DSM 13595T) as the type strain, and Gluconacetobacter azotocaptans sp. nov. (for the type SAd isolates), with strain CFN-Ca54T (= ATCC 70098ST = DSM 13594T) as the type strain.	2001 Jul	Fuentes-Ramírez, L E; Fuentes-Ramírez, LE; Fuentes-Ramírez; Bustillos-Cristales, R; Bustillos-Cristales, R; Bustillos-Cristales; Tapia-Hernández, A; Tapia-Hernández, A; Tapia-Hernández; Jiménez-Salgado, T; Jiménez-Salgado, T; Jiménez-Salgado; Wang, E T; Wang, ET; Wang; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
11448759	Synthesis of hemoglobins in rice (Oryza sativa var. Jackson) plants growing in normal and stress conditions.	In rice (Oryza sativa var. Jackson) at least three copies of hemoglobin (hb) gene exist. Rice hb1 and hb2 genes are differentially expressed in roots and leaves from mature plants. We used polyclonal antibodies raised to recombinant rice Hb1 and Western blotting to analyze the synthesis of Hbs in rice plants growing under normal or stress conditions. Results showed that rice Hbs are synthesized in coleoptiles, seminal roots and embryos from seeds germinated for 6 days, and also in leaves and roots from plants 2-14 weeks after germination. Analysis of Hb synthesis in stressed rice showed that: (i) level of Hbs was higher in etiolated than control plants, (ii) level of Hbs increased in roots from flooded rice, and (iii) level of Hbs did not change under oxidative (H(2)O(2)), nitrosative (SNP) and hormonal (2,4-D) stresses. These results suggest that the effect of light withdrawal in etiolated leaves and O(2)-limiting conditions in flooded roots, but not oxidative, nitrosative and hormonal stresses, modulate the synthesis of rice Hbs.	2001 Jul	Lira-Ruan, V; Lira-Ruan, V; Lira-Ruan; Sarath, G; Sarath, G; Sarath; Klucas, R V.; Klucas, RV; Klucas; Arredondo-Peter, R; Arredondo-Peter, R; Arredondo-Peter	Plant Sci
11716972	VIR.II: a new interface with the antibody sequences in the Kabat database.	The Kabat database is the source of information par excellence on antibody sequences. In 1995, we developed an interface with the Kabat database, called VIR. VIR has been very useful in conducting studies aiming to find structure-function relationships in antibodies. Here we report a new version adapted to the World Wide Web, called VIR.II. VIR.II allows searches by type of chain (V(H) or V(L)), by species, and by specificity. The species are selected using a pulldown menu, whereas the specificities can be selected from a list containing the unique specificities reported in the Kabat database. These facilities avoid mistakes and redundancies in the searches. Another feature, and probably the most important one, is that VIR.II introduces a classification of specificities in terms of the chemical and biochemical nature of the antigen, like anti-protein, anti-peptide, anti-hapten, etc. This classification has been useful in discovering patterns in the antigen-binding site of antibodies that correlate with the type of antigen the antibody interacts with. To illustrate this, while showing the capabilities of VIR.II, we analyze all the murine anti-peptide and anti-protein antibody sequences compiled as of July, 2000 in the Kabat database.	2001 Jul-Aug	Ramirez-Benitez, M del C; Ramirez-Benitez, Mdel C; Ramirez-Benitez; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb; Almagro, J C; Almagro, JC; Almagro	Biosystems
11375196	Burkholderia, a genus rich in plant-associated nitrogen fixers with wide environmental and geographic distribution.	The genus Burkholderia comprises 19 species, including Burkholderia vietnamiensis which is the only known N(2)-fixing species of this bacterial genus. The first isolates of B. vietnamiensis were recovered from the rhizosphere of rice plants grown in a phytotron, but its existence in natural environments and its geographic distribution were not reported. In the present study, most N(2)-fixing isolates recovered from the environment of field-grown maize and coffee plants cultivated in widely separated regions of Mexico were phenotypically identified as B. cepacia using the API 20NE system. Nevertheless, a number of these isolates recovered from inside of maize roots, as well as from the rhizosphere and rhizoplane of maize and coffee plants, showed similar or identical features to those of B. vietnamiensis TVV75(T). These features include nitrogenase activity with 10 different carbon sources, identical or very similar nifHDK hybridization patterns, very similar protein electrophoregrams, identical amplified 16S rDNA restriction (ARDRA) profiles, and levels of DNA-DNA reassociation higher than 70% with total DNA from strain TVV75(T). Although the ability to fix N(2) is not reported to be a common feature among the known species of the genus Burkholderia, the results obtained show that many diazotrophic Burkholderia isolates analyzed showed phenotypic and genotypic features different from those of the known N(2)-fixing species B. vietnamiensis as well as from those of B. kururiensis, a bacterium identified in the present study as a diazotrophic species. DNA-DNA reassociation assays confirmed the existence of N(2)-fixing Burkholderia species different from B. vietnamiensis. In addition, this study shows the wide geographic distribution and substantial capability of N(2)-fixing Burkholderia spp. for colonizing diverse host plants in distantly separated environments.	2001 Jun	Estrada-De Los Santos, P; Estrada-De Los Santos, P; Estrada-De Los Santos; Bustillos-Cristales, R; Bustillos-Cristales, R; Bustillos-Cristales; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	Appl Environ Microbiol
11282972	A comparative genomics approach to prediction of new members of regulons.	Identifying the complete transcriptional regulatory network for an organism is a major challenge. For each regulatory protein, we want to know all the genes it regulates, that is, its regulon. Examples of known binding sites can be used to estimate the binding specificity of the protein and to predict other binding sites. However, binding site predictions can be unreliable because determining the true specificity of the protein is difficult because of the considerable variability of binding sites. Because regulatory systems tend to be conserved through evolution, we can use comparisons between species to increase the reliability of binding site predictions. In this article, an approach is presented to evaluate the computational predictions of regulatory sites. We combine the prediction of transcription units having orthologous genes with the prediction of transcription factor binding sites based on probabilistic models. We augment the sets of genes in Escherichia coli that are expected to be regulated by two transcription factors, the cAMP receptor protein and the fumarate and nitrate reduction regulatory protein, through a comparison with the Haemophilus influenzae genome. At the same time, we learned more about the regulatory networks of H. influenzae, a species with much less experimental knowledge than E. coli. By studying orthologous genes subject to regulation by the same transcription factor, we also gained understanding of the evolution of the entire regulatory systems.	2001 Apr	Tan, K; Tan, K; Tan; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Stormo, G D; Stormo, GD; Stormo	Genome Res
11432923	Over-expression of cytosolic glutamine synthetase increases photosynthesis and growth at low nitrogen concentrations.	Nitrogen, which is a major limiting nutrient for plant growth, is assimilated as ammonium by the concerted action of glutamine synthetase (GS) and glutamate synthase (GOGAT). GS catalyses the critical incorporation of inorganic ammonium into the amino acid glutamine. Two types of GS isozymes, located in the cytosol (GS1) and in the chloroplast (GS2) have been identified in plants. Tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) transformants, over-expressing GS1 driven by the constitutive CaMV 35S promoter were analysed. GS in leaves of GS-5 and GS-8 plants was up-regulated, at the level of RNA and proteins. These transgenic plants had six times higher leaf GS activity than controls. Under optimum nitrogen fertilization conditions there was no effect of GS over-expression on photosynthesis or growth. However, under nitrogen starvation the GS transgenics had c. 70% higher shoot and c. 100% greater root dry weight as well as 50% more leaf area than low nitrogen controls. This was achieved by the maintenance of photosynthesis at rates indistinguishable from plants under high nitrogen, while photosynthesis in control plants was inhibited by 40-50% by nitrogen deprivation. It was demonstrated that manipulation of GS activity has the potential to maintain crop photosynthetic productivity while reducing nitrogen fertilization and the concomitant pollution.	2001 May	Fuentes, S I; Fuentes, SI; Fuentes; Allen, D J; Allen, DJ; Allen; Ortiz-Lopez, A; Ortiz-Lopez, A; Ortiz-Lopez; Hernández, G; Hernández, G; Hernández	J Exp Bot
11275307	Transcription unit conservation in the three domains of life: a perspective from Escherichia coli.	Here we address the question of the degree to which genes within experimentally characterized operons in one organism (Escherichia coli) are conserved in other genomes. We found that two genes adjacent within an operon are more likely both to have an ortholog in other organisms, regardless of relative position, than genes adjacent on the same strand but in two different transcription units. They are also more likely to occur next to, or fused to, one another in other genomes. Genes frequently conserved adjacent to each other, especially among evolutionarily distant species, must be part of the same transcription unit in most of them.	2001 Apr	Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb; Treviño, V; Treviño, V; Treviño; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda; Smith, T F; Smith, TF; Smith; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Trends Genet
11251836	Phosphatidylcholine levels in Bradyrhizobium japonicum membranes are critical for an efficient symbiosis with the soybean host plant.	Phosphatidylcholine (PC), the major membrane phospholipid in eukaryotes, is found in only some bacteria including members of the family Rhizobiaceae. For this reason, it has long been speculated that rhizobial PC might be required for a successful interaction of rhizobia with their legume host plants in order to allow the formation of nitrogen-fixing root nodules. A major pathway for PC formation in prokaryotes involves a threefold methylation of the precursor phosphatidylethanolamine (PE). Here, we report on the isolation of a Bradyrhizobium japonicum gene (pmtA) encoding the phospholipid N-methyltransferase PmtA. Upon expression of the bradyrhizobial pmtA gene in Escherichia coli, predominantly monomethylphosphatidylethanolamine was formed from PE. PmtA-deficient B. japonicum mutants still produced low levels of PC by a second methylation pathway. The amount of PC formed in such mutants (6% of total phospholipids) was greatly decreased compared with the wild type (52% of total phospholipids). Root nodules of soybean plants infected with B. japonicum pmtA mutants showed a nitrogen fixation activity of only 18% of the wild-type level. The interior colour of the nodules was beige instead of red, suggesting decreased amounts of leghaemoglobin. Moreover, ultrastructure analysis of these nodules demonstrated a greatly reduced number of bacteroids within infected plant cells. These data suggest that the biosynthesis of wild-type amounts of PC are required to allow for an efficient symbiotic interaction of B. japonicum with its soybean host plant.	2001 Mar	Minder, A C; Minder, AC; Minder; de Rudder, K E; de Rudder, KE; de Rudder; Narberhaus, F; Narberhaus, F; Narberhaus; Fischer, H M; Fischer, HM; Fischer; Hennecke, H; Hennecke, H; Hennecke; Geiger, O; Geiger, O; Geiger	Mol Microbiol
11277432	The nodulation protein NodG shows the enzymatic activity of an 3-oxoacyl-acyl carrier protein reductase.	The acyl carrier protein NodF is required for the synthesis of unusual polyunsaturated fatty acids that confer specificity to lipochitin oligosaccharide nodulation (Nod) factors of Rhizobium leguminosarum. In this study, homogeneous NodF protein was used as a ligand to identify proteins of R. leguminosarum that specifically interact with NodF and presumably are involved in the biosynthesis or transfer of the unusual fatty acids. The N-terminal amino acid sequence of a 29-kDa protein that interacts strongly with NodF revealed high similarity to NodG of Rhizobium sp. N33 and to NodG of Sinorhizobium meliloti We cloned and sequenced the gene coding for the NodG-like protein of R. leguminosarum and found it to be the product of the constitutively expressed gene fabG. FabG is the 3-oxoacyl-acyl carrier protein reductase that catalyzes the first reduction step in each cycle of fatty acid elongation. FabG of R. leguminosarum and NodG of Rhizobium sp. N33 were expressed in Escherichia coli. In both cases, the purified protein showed 3-oxoacyl-acyl carrier protein reductase activity in vitro. Therefore, NodG has the same biochemical function as FabG, and the high degree of similarity at the protein and DNA level suggest that nodG is a duplication of the housekeeping genefabG.	2001 Mar	López-Lara, I M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, O; Geiger, O; Geiger	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
11157280	Characterization of rhizobial isolates of Phaseolus vulgaris by staircase electrophoresis of low-molecular-weight RNA.	Low-molecular-weight (LMW) RNA molecules were analyzed to characterize rhizobial isolates that nodulate the common bean growing in Spain. Since LMW RNA profiles, determined by staircase electrophoresis, varied across the rhizobial species nodulating beans, we demonstrated that bean isolates recovered from Spanish soils presumptively could be characterized as Rhizobium etli, Rhizobium gallicum, Rhizobium giardinii, Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae and bv. trifolii, and Sinorhizobium fredii.	2001 Feb	Velázquez, E; Velázquez, E; Velázquez; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Rodríguez-Navarro, D N; Rodríguez-Navarro, DN; Rodríguez-Navarro; Trujillo, M E; Trujillo, ME; Trujillo; Daza, A; Daza, A; Daza; Mateos, P F; Mateos, PF; Mateos; Martínez-Molina, E; Martínez-Molina, E; Martínez-Molina; van Berkum , P; van Berkum , P; van Berkum 	Appl Environ Microbiol
11136777	Limited genetic diversity of Brucella spp.	Multilocus enzyme electrophoresis (MLEE) of 99 Brucella isolates, including the type strains from all recognized species, revealed a very limited genetic diversity and supports the proposal of a monospecific genus. In MLEE-derived dendrograms, Brucella abortus and a marine Brucella sp. grouped into a single electrophoretic type related to Brucella neotomae and Brucella ovis. Brucella suis and Brucella canis formed another cluster linked to Brucella melitensis and related to Rhizobium tropici. The Brucella strains tested that were representatives of the six electrophoretic types had the same rRNA gene restriction fragment length polymorphism patterns and identical ribotypes. All 99 isolates had similar chromosome profiles as revealed by the Eckhardt procedure.	2001 Jan	Gándara, B; Gándara, B; Gándara; Merino, A L; Merino, AL; Merino; Rogel, M A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	J Clin Microbiol
11139607	Conserved regulatory elements of the promoter sequence of the gene rpoH of enteric bacteria.	The rpoH regulatory region of different members of the enteric bacteria family was sequenced or downloaded from GenBank and compared. In addition, the transcriptional start sites of rpoH of Yersinia frederiksenii and Proteus mirabilis, two distant members of this family, were determined. Sequences similar to the sigma(70) promoters P1, P4 and P5, to the sigma(E) promoter P3 and to boxes DnaA1, DnaA2, cAMP receptor protein (CRP) boxes CRP1, CRP2 and box CytR present in Escherichia coli K12, were identified in sequences of closely related bacteria such as: E.coli, Shigella flexneri, Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium, Citrobacter freundii, Enterobacter cloacae and Klebsiella pneumoniae. In more distant bacteria, Y.frederiksenii and P.mirabilis, the rpoH regulatory region has a distal P1-like sigma(70) promoter and two proximal promoters: a heat-induced sigma(E)-like promoter and a sigma(70) promoter. Sequences similar to the regulatory boxes were not identified in these bacteria. This study suggests that the general pattern of transcription of the rpoH gene in enteric bacteria includes a distal sigma(70) promoter, >200 nt upstream of the initiation codon, and two proximal promoters: a heat-induced sigma(E)-like promoter and a sigma(70) promoter. A second proximal sigma(70) promoter under catabolite-regulation is probably present only in bacteria closely related to E.coli.	2001 Jan	Ramírez-Santos, J; Ramírez-Santos, J; Ramírez-Santos; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; García-Varela, M; García-Varela, M; García-Varela; Gómez-Eichelmann, M C; Gómez-Eichelmann, MC; Gómez-Eichelmann	Nucleic Acids Res
11211278	A revision of Rhizobium Frank 1889, with an emended description of the genus, and the inclusion of all species of Agrobacterium Conn 1942 and Allorhizobium undicola de Lajudie et al. 1998 as new combinations: Rhizobium radiobacter, R. rhizogenes, R. rubi, R. undicola and R. vitis.	Rhizobium, Agrobacterium and Allorhizobium are genera within the bacterial family Rhizobiaceae, together with Sinorhizobium. The species of Agrobacterium, Agrobacterium tumefaciens (syn. Agrobacterium radiobacter), Agrobacterium rhizogenes, Agrobacterium rubi and Agrobacterium vitis, together with Allorhizobium undicola, form a monophyletic group with all Rhizobium species, based on comparative 16S rDNA analyses. Agrobacterium is an artificial genus comprising plant-pathogenic species. The monophyletic nature of Agrobacterium, Allorhizobium and Rhizobium and their common phenotypic generic circumscription support their amalgamation into a single genus, Rhizobium. Agrobacterium tumefaciens was conserved as the type species of Agrobacterium, but the epithet radiobacter would take precedence as Rhizobium radiobacter in the revised genus. The proposed new combinations are Rhizobium radiobacter, Rhizobium rhizogenes, Rhizobium rubi, Rhizobium undicola and Rhizobium vitis.	2001 Jan	Young, J M; Young, JM; Young; Kuykendall, L D; Kuykendall, LD; Kuykendall; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Kerr, A; Kerr, A; Kerr; Sawada, H; Sawada, H; Sawada	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
11770429	Nonsymbiotic hemoglobins in rice are synthesized during germination and in differentiating cell types.	Nonsymbiotic hemoglobins (ns-Hbs) previously have been found in monocots and dicots; however, very little is known about the tissue and cell type localization as well as the physiological function(s) of these oxygen-binding proteins. We report the immunodetection and immunolocalization of ns-Hbs in rice (Oryza sativa L.) by Western blotting and in situ confocal laser scanning techniques. Ns-Hbs were detected in soluble extracts of different tissues from the developing rice seedling by immunoblotting. Levels of ns-Hbs increased in the germinating seed for the first six days following imbibition and remained relatively constant thereafter. In contrast, ns-Hb levels decreased during leaf maturation. Roots and mesocotyls contained detectable, but low levels of ns-Hbs. Split-seed experiments revealed that ns-Hbs are synthesized de novo during seed germination and are expressed in the absence of any signal originating from the embryo. Immunolocalization of ns-Hbs by confocal microscopy indicated the presence of ns-Hbs primarily in differentiated and differentiating cell types of the developing seedling, such as the aleurone, scutellum, root cap cells, sclerenchyma, and tracheary elements. To our knowledge, this is the first report of the specific cellular localization of these proteins during seedling development.	2001	Ross, E J; Ross, EJ; Ross; Shearman, L; Shearman, L; Shearman; Mathiesen, M; Mathiesen, M; Mathiesen; Zhou, Y J; Zhou, YJ; Zhou; Arredondo-Peter, R; Arredondo-Peter, R; Arredondo-Peter; Sarath, G; Sarath, G; Sarath; Klucas, R V; Klucas, RV; Klucas	Protoplasma
11125111	PromEC: An updated database of Escherichia coli mRNA promoters with experimentally identified transcriptional start sites.	PromEC is an updated compilation of Escherichia coli mRNA promoter sequences. It includes documentation on the location of experimentally identified mRNA transcriptional start sites on the E. coli chromosome, as well as the actual sequences in the promoter region. The database was updated as of July 2000 and includes 472 entries. PromEC is accessible at http://bioinfo.md.huji.ac. il/marg/promec	2001 Jan	Hershberg, R; Hershberg, R; Hershberg; Bejerano, G; Bejerano, G; Bejerano; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Margalit, H; Margalit, H; Margalit	Nucleic Acids Res
11125053	RegulonDB (version 3.2): transcriptional regulation and operon organization in Escherichia coli K-12.	RegulonDB is a database on mechanisms of transcription regulation and operon organization in Escherichia coli K-12. The current version has considerably increased numbers of regulatory elements such as promoters, binding sites and terminators. The complete repertoire of known and predicted DNA-binding transcriptional regulators can be considered to be included in this version. The database now distinguishes different allosteric conformations of regulatory proteins indicating the one active in binding and regulating the different promoters. A new set of operon predictions has been incorporated. The relational design has been modified accordingly. Furthermore, a major improvement is a graphic display enabling browsing of the database with a Java-based graphic user interface with three zoom-levels connected to properties of each chromosomal element. The purpose of these modifications is to make RegulonDB a useful tool and control set for transcriptome experiments. RegulonDB can be accessed on the web at the URL: http://www.cifn.unam.mx/Computational_Biology/++ +regulondb/	2001 Jan	Salgado, H; Salgado, H; Salgado; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Millán-Zárate, D; Millán-Zárate, D; Millán-Zárate; Díaz-Peredo, E; Díaz-Peredo, E; Díaz-Peredo; Sánchez-Solano, F; Sánchez-Solano, F; Sánchez-Solano; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda; Bonavides-Martínez, C; Bonavides-Martínez, C; Bonavides-Martínez; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
11106020	Differential regulation of fixN-reiterated genes in Rhizobium etli by a novel fixL-fixK cascade.	Among the complexities in the regulation of nitrogen fixation in the Rhizobiaceae are reiteration of regulatory components as well as variant roles for each component between species. For Rhizobium etli CFN42, we reported that the symbiotic plasmid (pCFN42d) contains a key regulatory gene (fixKd) and genes for a symbiotic cytochrome oxidase (fixNOQPd). Here we discuss the occurrence of reiteration of these genes (fixKf and fixNOQPf) and the finding of an unusual fixL homolog on a plasmid previously considered cryptic (pCFN42f). The structure of the deduced FixL polypeptide is suggestive of a fusion of the receiver and transmitter modules of a two-component regulatory system as described in R. leguminosarum bv. viciae VF39. Gene fusion analysis, coupled with mutation of each regulatory element, revealed that free-living expression of FixKf was dependent fully on FixL. In contrast, synthesis of FixKd was not detected under the conditions tested. The FixKf protein is needed for microaerobic expression of both fixN reiterations, whereas the FixKd protein appears to be dispensable. Interestingly, expression of the fixN reiterations exhibits a differential dependence for FixL, where transcription of fixNf was suppressed in the absence of FixL but expression of fixNd still showed significant levels. This suggests the existence of a FixL-independent mechanism for expression of the fixNd reiteration. Surprisingly, mutations in fixL, fixKd, or fixKf (either singly or in combination) did not alter symbiotic effectiveness. A mutation in fixNd (but not in fixNf) was, however, severely affected, indicating a differential role for these reiterations in nitrogen fixation.	2000 Dec	Girard, L; Girard, L; Girard; Brom, S; Brom, S; Brom; Dávalos, A; Dávalos, A; Dávalos; López, O; López, O; López; Soberón, M; Soberón, M; Soberón; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
11108022	Restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of 16S rDNA and low molecular weight RNA profiling of rhizobial isolates from shrubby legumes endemic to the Canary islands.	Thirty-six strains of slow-growing rhizobia isolated from nodules of four woody legumes endemic to the Canary islands were characterised by 16S rDNA PCR-RFLP analyses (ARDRA) and LMW RNA profiling, and compared with reference strains representing Bradyrhizobium japonicum, B. elkanii, B. liaoningense, and two unclassified Bradyrhizobium sp. (Lupinus) strains. Both techniques showed similar results, indicating the existence of three genotypes among the Canarian isolates. Analysis of the combined RFLP patterns obtained with four endonucleases, showed the existence of predominant genotype comprising 75% of the Canarian isolates (BTA-1 group) and the Bradyrhizobium sp. (Lupinus) strains. A second genotype was shared by nine Canarian isolates (BGA-1 group) and the B. japonicum and B. liaoningense reference strains. The BES-5 strain formed an independent group, as also did the B. elkanii reference strains. LMW RNA profile analysis consistently resolved the same three genotypes detected by 16S ARDRA among the Canarian isolates, and suggested that all these isolates are genotypically more related to B. japonicum than to B. elkanii or B. liaoningense. Cluster analysis of the combined 16S ARDRA and LMW RNA profiles resolved the BTA-1 group with the Bradyrhizobium sp. (Lupinus) strains, and the BES-5 isolate, as a well separated sub-branch of the B. japonicum cluster. Thus, the two types of analyses indicated that the isolates related to BTA-1 conform a group of bradyrhizobial strains that can be clearly distinguishable from representatives of the tree currently described Bradyrhizobium species. No correlation between genotypes, host legumes, and geographic location was found.	2000 Oct	Jarabo-Lorenzo, A; Jarabo-Lorenzo, A; Jarabo-Lorenzo; Velázquez, E; Velázquez, E; Velázquez; Pérez-Galdona, R; Pérez-Galdona, R; Pérez-Galdona; Vega-Hernández, M C; Vega-Hernández, MC; Vega-Hernández; Martínez-Molina, E; Martínez-Molina, E; Martínez-Molina; Mateos, P E; Mateos, PE; Mateos; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa, P; Vinuesa; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; León-Barrios, M; León-Barrios, M; León-Barrios	Syst Appl Microbiol
10986467	Crystal structure of a nonsymbiotic plant hemoglobin.	Nonsymbiotic hemoglobins (nsHbs) form a new class of plant proteins that is distinct genetically and structurally from leghemoglobins. They are found ubiquitously in plants and are expressed in low concentrations in a variety of tissues including roots and leaves. Their function involves a biochemical response to growth under limited O(2) conditions.	2000 Sep	Hargrove, M S; Hargrove, MS; Hargrove; Brucker, E A; Brucker, EA; Brucker; Stec, B; Stec, B; Stec; Sarath, G; Sarath, G; Sarath; Arredondo-Peter, R; Arredondo-Peter, R; Arredondo-Peter; Klucas, R V; Klucas, RV; Klucas; Olson, J S; Olson, JS; Olson; Phillips, G N; Phillips, GN; Phillips	Structure
10972799	Inactivation of the gene for phospholipid N-methyltransferase in Sinorhizobium meliloti: phosphatidylcholine is required for normal growth.	In phosphatidylcholine (PC)-containing prokaryotes, only the methylation pathway of PC biosynthesis was thought to occur. However, a second choline-dependent pathway for PC formation, the PC synthase (Pcs) pathway, exists in Sinorhizobium (Rhizobium) meliloti in which choline is condensed with CDP-diacylglyceride. Here, we characterize the methylation pathway of PC biosynthesis in S. meliloti. A mutant deficient in phospholipid N-methyltransferase (Pmt) was complemented with a S. meliloti gene bank and the complementing DNA was sequenced. A gene coding for a S-adenosylmethionine-dependent N-methyltransferase was identified as the sinorhizobial Pmt, which showed little similarity to the corresponding enzyme from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Upon expression of the sinorhizobial Pmt, besides phosphatidylcholine, the methylated intermediates of the methylation pathway, monomethylphosphatidylethanolamine and dimethylphosphatidylethanolamine, are also formed. When Pmt-deficient mutants of S. meliloti are grown on minimal medium, they cannot form PC, and they grow significantly more slowly than the wild type. Growth of the Pmt-deficient mutant in the presence of choline allows for PC formation via the Pcs pathway and restores wild-type-like growth. Double knock-out mutants, deficient in Pmt and in Pcs, are unable to form PC and show reduced growth even in the presence of choline. These results suggest that PC is required for normal growth of S. meliloti.	2000 Aug	de Rudder, K E; de Rudder, KE; de Rudder; López-Lara, I M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, O; Geiger, O; Geiger	Mol Microbiol
10922070	Prediction, identification, and artificial selection of DNA rearrangements in Rhizobium: toward a natural genomic design.	Based on the DNA sequence of the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium strain NGR234, we predicted potential rearrangements generated by homologous recombination. All predicted rearrangements were identified experimentally by using a PCR-based methodology. Thus, the predicted and the actual dynamic maps of the replicon coincide. By using an approach that does not involve the introduction of exogenous genetic elements, derivative populations that are pure for specific rearrangements were obtained. We propose that knowledge of the DNA sequence of a genome offers the possibility of designing pathways of sequential rearrangements leading to alternative genomic structures. An experimental strategy to isolate bacterial populations containing the desired structures is discussed.	2000 Aug	Flores, M; Flores, M; Flores; Mavingui, P; Mavingui, P; Mavingui; Perret, X; Perret, X; Perret; Broughton, W J; Broughton, WJ; Broughton; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Hernández, G; Hernández, G; Hernández; Dávila, G; Dávila, G; Dávila; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
10873525	In Rhizobium etli symbiotic plasmid transfer, nodulation competitivity and cellular growth require interaction among different replicons.	Bacteria belonging to the genus Rhizobium are able to develop two different lifestyles, in symbiotic association with plant roots or through saprophytic growth. The genome of Rhizobium strains is constituted by a chromosome and several large plasmids, one of them containing most of the genes involved in symbiosis (symbiotic plasmid or pSym). Our model strain Rhizobium etli CFN42 contains six plasmids. We have constructed multiple plasmid-cured derivatives of this strain and used them to analyze the contribution of these plasmids to free-living cellular viability, competitivity for nodulation, plasmid transfer, and utilization of diverse carbon sources. Our results show that the transfer of the pSym is strictly dependent on the presence of another plasmid; consequently under conditions where pSym transfer is required, nodulation relies on the presence of a plasmid devoid of nodulation genes. We also found a drastic decrease in competitivity for nodulation in multiple plasmid-cured derivatives when compared with single plasmid-cured strains. Cellular growth and viability were greatly diminished in some multiple plasmid-cured strains. The utilization of a number of carbon sources depends on the presence of specific plasmids. The results presented in this work indicate that functional interactions among sequences scattered in the different plasmids are required for successful completion of both lifestyles.	2000 Jul	Brom, S; Brom, S; Brom; García-de los Santos, A; García-de los Santos, A; García-de los Santos; Cervantes, L; Cervantes, L; Cervantes; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero	Plasmid
10878127	Role of GOGAT in carbon and nitrogen partitioning in Rhizobium etli.	The isolation and characterization of a Rhizobium etli glutamate auxotroph, TAD12, harbouring a single Tn5 insertion, is reported. This mutant produced no detectable glutamate synthase (GOGAT) activity. The cloning and physical characterization of a 7.2 kb fragment of R. etli DNA harbouring the structural genes gltB and gltD encoding the two GOGAT subunits GltB and GltD is also reported. In comparison with the wild-type strain (CFN42), the GOGAT mutant strain utilized less succinate and glutamate and grew less with this and other amino acids as nitrogen source. R. etli assimilates ammonium by the glutamine synthetase (GS)-GOGAT pathway and a GOGAT mutant prevents the cycling of glutamine by this pathway, something that impairs nitrogen and carbon metabolism and explains the decrease in the amino-nitrogen during exponential growth, with glutamate as nitrogen source. GOGAT activity also has a role in ammonium turnover and in the synthesis of amino acids and proteins, processes that are necessary to sustain cell viability in non-growing conditions. The assimilation of ammonium is important during symbiosis and glutamate constitutes 20-40% of the total amino-nitrogen. In symbiosis, the blockage of ammonium assimilation by a GOGAT mutation significantly decreases the amino-nitrogen pool of the bacteroids and may explain why more N(2) is fixed in ammonium, excreted to the plant cell, transported to the leaves and stored in the seeds.	2000 Jul	Castillo, Adriana; Castillo, A; Castillo; Taboada, Hermenegildo; Taboada, H; Taboada; Mendoza, Alberto; Mendoza, A; Mendoza; Valderrama, Brenda; Valderrama, B; Valderrama; Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	Microbiology (Reading)
10977874	Sesbania herbacea-Rhizobium huautlense Nodulation in Flooded Soils and Comparative Characterization of S. herbacea-Nodulating Rhizobia in Different Environments.	The nodulation of S. herbacea was compared under flooded and non-flooded conditions in two different soils. One soil was from a flooded field in Sierra de Huautla, the native habitat of this legume, while the other soil was from a well-drained field in Cuernavaca, where rhizobia were found to nodulate the introduced S. herbacea plants. Nodulation of the plants was completely eliminated by flooding in the Cuernavaca soil, whereas nodules were obtained in the same soil under non-flooded conditions. In contrast, nodules were formed in Huautla soil under both flooded and non-flooded conditions. Most isolates, except isolate HS2, from Huautla soil and water were identified as R. huautlense by colony morphology, growth rate, PCR-RFLP of 16S rRNA genes, MLEE, cellular plasmid contents, and RFLP of nifH and nodDAB genes. Isolate HS2 was identified as Mesorhizobium sp. Isolates from Cuernavaca soil were different from R. huautlense in many aspects and were classified into five rDNA types within the genera Mesorhizobium, Rhizobium, and Sinorhizobium by PCR-RFLP of 16S rRNA genes. R. huautlense is a water Rhizobium species. Growth by denitrification under oxygen limitation or with ethanol was observed for R. huautlense bacteria but not for the isolates from Cuernavaca. In an interstrain nodulation competitive assay under both flooded and non-flooded conditions, R. huautlense strain S02 completely inhibited the nodulation of Mesorhizobium sp. Sn2, an isolate from Cuernavaca. From these results, we conclude that R. huautlense has the unique ability to nodulate S. herbacea not only in flooded soils, but in non-flooded soils as well. 	2000 Jul	Wang, E T; Wang, ET; Wang; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Microb Ecol
10985751	Structural levansucrase gene (lsdA) constitutes a functional locus conserved in the species Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus.	Levansucrase (EC 2.4.1.10) was identified as a constitutive exoenzyme in 14 Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus strains recovered from different host plants in diverse geographical regions. The enzyme, consisting of a single 60-kDa polypeptide, hydrolysed sucrose to synthesise oligofructans and levan. Sugar-cane-associated strains of the most abundant genotype (electrophoretic type 1) showed maximal values of levansucrase production. These values were three-fold higher than those of the isolates recovered from coffee plants. Restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis revealed a high degree of conservation of the levansucrase locus (IsdA) among the 14 strains under study, which represented 11 different G. diazotrophicus genotypes. Targeted disruption of the lsdA gene in four representative strains abolished their ability to grow on sucrose, indicating that the endophytic species G. diazotrophicus utilises plant sucrose via levansucrase.	2000 Jul-Aug	Hernández, L; Hernández, L; Hernández; Sotolongo, M; Sotolongo, M; Sotolongo; Rosabal, Y; Rosabal, Y; Rosabal; Menéndez, C; Menéndez, C; Menéndez; Ramírez, R; Ramírez, R; Ramírez; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Arrieta, J; Arrieta, J; Arrieta	Arch Microbiol
10858449	Cloning and characterization of the gene for phosphatidylcholine synthase.	Phosphatidylcholine (PC) is the major membrane-forming phospholipid in eukaryotes and can be synthesized by either of two pathways, the CDP-choline pathway or the methylation pathway. In prokaryotes only the methylation pathway was thought to occur. Recently, however, we could demonstrate (de Rudder, K. E. E., Sohlenkamp, C., and Geiger, O. (1999) J. Biol. Chem. 274, 20011-20016) that a second pathway for phosphatidylcholine biosynthesis exists in Sinorhizobium (Rhizobium) meliloti involving a novel enzymatic activity, phosphatidylcholine synthase, that condenses choline and CDP-diacylglyceride in one step to form PC and CMP. Using a colony autoradiography method we have isolated mutants of S. meliloti deficient in phosphatidylcholine synthase and which are no longer able to incorporate radiolabeled choline into PC. Complementation of such mutants with a sinorhizobial cosmid gene bank, subcloning of the complementing fragment, and sequencing of the subclone led to the identification of a gene coding for a presumptive CDP-alcohol phosphatidyltransferase. Amplification of this gene and its expression in Escherichia coli demonstrates that it codes for phosphatidylcholine synthase. Genomes of some pathogens (Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Borrelia burgdorferi) contain genes similar to the sinorhizobial gene (pcs) for phosphatidylcholine synthase. Although pcs-deficient S. meliloti knock-out mutants show wild type-like growth and lipid composition, they are unable to perform rapid PC biosynthesis that normally is achieved via the phosphatidylcholine synthase pathway in S. meliloti wild type.	2000 Jun	Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; de Rudder, K E; de Rudder, KE; de Rudder; Rohrs, V; Rohrs, V; Rohrs; Lopez-Lara, I M; Lopez-Lara, IM; Lopez-Lara; Geiger, O; Geiger, O; Geiger	J Biol Chem
10823905	Operons in Escherichia coli: genomic analyses and predictions.	The rich knowledge of operon organization in Escherichia coli, together with the completed chromosomal sequence of this bacterium, enabled us to perform an analysis of distances between genes and of functional relationships of adjacent genes in the same operon, as opposed to adjacent genes in different transcription units. We measured and demonstrated the expected tendencies of genes within operons to have much shorter intergenic distances than genes at the borders of transcription units. A clear peak at short distances between genes in the same operon contrasts with a flat frequency distribution of genes at the borders of transcription units. Also, genes in the same operon tend to have the same physiological functional class. The results of these analyses were used to implement a method to predict the genomic organization of genes into transcription units. The method has a maximum accuracy of 88% correct identification of pairs of adjacent genes to be in an operon, or at the borders of transcription units, and correctly identifies around 75% of the known transcription units when used to predict the transcription unit organization of the E. coli genome. Based on the frequency distance distributions, we estimated a total of 630 to 700 operons in E. coli. This step opens the possibility of predicting operon organization in other bacteria whose genome sequences have been finished.	2000 Jun	Salgado, H; Salgado, H; Salgado; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb; Smith, T F; Smith, TF; Smith; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
10830266	Disruption of a gene essential for sulfoquinovosyldiacylglycerol biosynthesis in Sinorhizobium meliloti has no detectable effect on root nodule symbiosis.	The sulfolipid sulfoquinovosyldiacylglycerol is commonly found in the thylakoid membranes of photosynthetic bacteria and plants. While there is a good correlation between the occurrence of sulfolipid and photosynthesis, a number of exceptions are known. Most recently, sulfoquinovosyldiacylglycerol was discovered in the non-photosynthetic, root nodule-forming bacterium Sinorhizobium meliloti. This discovery raised the questions of the phylogenetic origin of genes essential for the biosynthesis of this lipid in S. meliloti and of a function of sulfolipid in root nodule symbiosis. To begin to answer these questions, we isolated and inactivated the sqdB gene of S. meliloti. This gene and two other genes located directly 3' of sqdB are highly similar to the sqdB, sqdC, and sqdD genes known to be essential for sulfolipid biosynthesis in the photosynthetic, purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. This observation confirms the close phylogenetic kinship between these two species. Furthermore, the reduced similarity of sqdB to the plant ortholog SQD1 of Arabidopsis thaliana does not support a previous sqd gene transfer from the plant as a consequence of close symbiosis. A sulfolipid-deficient mutant of S. meliloti disrupted in sqdB is capable of inducing functional nodules and does not show an obvious disadvantage under different laboratory culture conditions. Thus far, no specific function can be assigned to bacterial sulfolipid, in either nodule-associated or free-living cells. S. meliloti contains a rich set of polar membrane lipids some of which, including sulfolipid, may become critical only under growth conditions that still need to be discovered.	2000 Jun	Weissenmayer, B; Weissenmayer, B; Weissenmayer; Geiger, O; Geiger, O; Geiger; Benning, C; Benning, C; Benning	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
10809690	Structural elements required for replication and incompatibility of the Rhizobium etli symbiotic plasmid.	The symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium etli CE3 belongs to the RepABC family of plasmid replicons. This family is characterized by the presence of three conserved genes, repA, repB, and repC, encoded by the same DNA strand. A long intergenic sequence (igs) between repB and repC is also conserved in all members of the plasmid family. In this paper we demonstrate that (i) the repABC genes are organized in an operon; (ii) the RepC product is essential for replication; (iii) RepA and RepB products participate in plasmid segregation and in the regulation of plasmid copy number; (iv) there are two cis-acting incompatibility regions, one located in the igs (incalpha) and the other downstream of repC (incbeta) (the former is essential for replication); and (v) RepA is a trans-acting incompatibility factor. We suggest that incalpha is a cis-acting site required for plasmid partitioning and that the origin of replication lies within incbeta.	2000 Jun	Ramírez-Romero, M A; Ramírez-Romero, MA; Ramírez-Romero; Soberón, N; Soberón, N; Soberón; Pérez-Oseguera, A; Pérez-Oseguera, A; Pérez-Oseguera; Téllez-Sosa, J; Téllez-Sosa, J; Téllez-Sosa; Cevallos, M A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	J Bacteriol
10854788	Expression pattern of Rhizobium etli ccmIEFH genes involved in c-type cytochrome maturation.	In different bacterial species, ccmIEFH genes have been suggested to code for subunits of a bacterial haem-lyase catalyzing the covalent attachment of haem to c-type apoproteins. In Rhizobium etli CE3 there are two copies of ccmIEFH: one in the chromosome and the other located in plasmid pf. However, the null phenotype of chromosomal ccmF mutant indicates that the gene locus of plasmid pf is not functional. Two ccmI chromosomal mutants, previously isolated, produced detectable levels of c-type cytochromes under certain culture conditions in contrast with the ccmF mutant, suggesting that ccmF could be transcribed independently. The transcriptional organization of ccmIEFH operon was established. Two promoters from the chromosomal locus were mapped by primer extension, one located upstream of ccmI and the second located upstream of ccmF. The regulation of the expression of both promoters was studied using appropriate lacZ gene fusions (ccmI-lacZ and ccmEF-lacZ). The ccmI-lacZ gene fusion was expressed in complex medium, during exponential growth, under microaerobic conditions and in a R. etli mutant that accumulates reducing power, conditions where a higher respiration rate could be limited by c-type cytochrome content. The ccmEF-lacZ fusion was also primarily expressed in complex medium and under microaerophilic conditions. The finding of two independent promoters in this gene locus could suggest that the step catalyzed by CcmFH could be a rate-limiting step for c-type cytochrome assembly under certain culture conditions.	2000 May	Reyes1, J D; Reyes1, JD; Reyes1; Tabche1, M; Tabche1, M; Tabche1; Morera, C; Morera, C; Morera; Girard, M L; Girard, ML; Girard; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Krol, E; Krol, E; Krol; Miranda, J; Miranda, J; Miranda; Soberón, M; Soberón, M; Soberón	Gene
10729615	Analysis of a ferric leghemoglobin reductase from cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) root nodules.	Ferric leghemoglobin reductase (FLbR), an enzyme reducing ferric leghemoglobin (Lb) to ferrous Lb, was purified from cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) root nodules by sequential chromatography on hydroxylapatite followed by Mono-Q HR5/5 FPLC and Sephacryl S-200 gel filtration. The purified cowpea FLbR had a specific activity of 216 nmol Lb(2+)O(2) formed min(-1) mg(-1) of enzyme for cowpea Lb(3+) and a specific activity of 184 nmol Lb(2+)O(2) formed min(-1) mg(-1) of enzyme for soybean Lb(3+). A cDNA clone of cowpea FLbR was obtained by screening a cowpea root nodule cDNA library. The nucleotide sequence of cowpea FLbR cDNA exhibited about 88% similarity with soybean (Glycine max) FLbR and 85% with pea (Pisum sativum) dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase (DLDH, EC 1.8.1.4) cDNAs. Conserved regions for the FAD-binding site, NAD(P)H-binding site, and disulfide active site were identified among the deduced amino acid sequences of cowpea FLbR, soybean FLbR, pea DLDH and other enzymes in the family of the pyridine nucleotide-disulfide oxido-reductases.	2000 May	Luan, P; Luan; Aréchaga-Ocampo, E; Aréchaga-Ocampo; Sarath, G; Sarath; Arredondo-Peter, R; Arredondo-Peter; Klucas, RV; Klucas	Plant Sci
10796024	Multiresistance genes of Rhizobium etli CFN42.	Multidrug efflux pumps of bacteria are involved in the resistance to various antibiotics and toxic compounds. In Rhizobium etli, a mutualistic symbiont of Phaseolus vulgaris (bean), genes resembling multidrug efflux pump genes were identified and designated rmrA and rmrB. rmrA was obtained after the screening of transposon-generated fusions that are inducible by bean-root released flavonoids. The predicted gene products of rmrAB shared significant homology to membrane fusion and major facilitator proteins, respectively. Mutants of rmrA formed on average 40% less nodules in bean, while mutants of rmrA and rmrB had enhanced sensitivity to phytoalexins, flavonoids, and salicylic acid, compared with the wild-type strain. Multidrug resistance genes emrAB from Escherichia coli complemented an rmrA mutant from R. etli for resistance to high concentrations of naringenin.	2000 May	González-Pasayo, R; González-Pasayo, R; González-Pasayo; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
10734201	Discovering regulatory elements in non-coding sequences by analysis of spaced dyads.	The application of microarray and related technologies is currently generating a systematic catalog of the transcriptional response of any single gene to a multiplicity of experimental conditions. Clustering genes according to the similarity of their transcriptional response provides a direct hint to the regulons of the different transcription factors, many of which have still not been characterized. We have developed a new method for deciphering the mechanism underlying the common transcriptional response of a set of genes, i.e. discovering cis -acting regulatory elements from a set of unaligned upstream sequences. This method, called dyad analysis, is based on the observation that many regulatory sites consist of a pair of highly conserved trinucleotides, spaced by a non-conserved region of fixed width. The approach is to count the number of occurrences of each possible spaced pair of trinucleotides, and to assess its statistical significance. The method is highly efficient in the detection of sites bound by C(6)Zn(2)binuclear cluster proteins, as well as other transcription factors. In addition, we show that the dyad and single-word analyses are efficient for the detection of regulatory patterns in gene clusters from DNA chip experiments. In combination, these programs should provide a fast and efficient way to discover new regulatory sites for as yet unknown transcription factors.	2000 Apr	van Helden, J; van Helden, J; van Helden; Rios, A F; Rios, AF; Rios; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
10734204	The repertoire of DNA-binding transcriptional regulators in Escherichia coli K-12.	Using a combination of several approaches we estimated and characterized a total of 314 regulatory DNA-binding proteins in Escherichia coli, which might represent its minimal set of transcription factors. The collection is comprised of 35% activators, 43% repressors and 22% dual regulators. Within many regulatory protein families, the members are homogeneous in their regulatory roles, physiology of regulated genes, regulatory function, length and genome position, showing that these families have evolved homogeneously in prokaryotes, particularly in E.coli. This work describes a full characterization of the repertoire of regulatory interactions in a whole living cell. This repertoire should contribute to the interpretation of global gene expression profiles in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes.	2000 Apr	Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
10692356	Molecular basis for the temperature sensitivity of Escherichia coli pth(Ts).	The gene pth, encoding peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase (Pth), is essential for protein synthesis and viability of Escherichia coli. Two pth mutants have been studied in depth: a pth(Ts) mutant isolated as temperature sensitive and a pth(rap) mutant selected as nonpermissive for bacteriophage lambda vegetative growth. Here we show that each mutant protein is defective in a different way. The Pth(Ts) protein was very unstable in vivo, both at 43 degrees C and at permissive temperatures, but its specific activity was comparable to that of the wild-type enzyme, Pth(wt). Conversely, the mutant Pth(rap) protein had the same stability as Pth(wt), but its specific activity was low. The thermosensitivity of the pth(Ts) mutant, presumably, ensues after Pth(Ts) protein levels are reduced at 43 degrees C. Conditions that increased the cellular Pth(Ts) concentration, a rise in gene copy number or diminished protein degradation, allowed cell growth at a nonpermissive temperature. Antibiotic-mediated inhibition of mRNA and protein synthesis, but not of peptidyl-tRNA drop-off, reduced pth(Ts) cell viability even at a permissive temperature. Based on these results, we suggest that Pth(Ts) protein, being unstable in vivo, supports cell viability only if its concentration is maintained above a threshold that allows general protein synthesis.	2000 Mar	Cruz-Vera, L R; Cruz-Vera, LR; Cruz-Vera; Toledo, I; Toledo, I; Toledo; Hernández-Sánchez, J; Hernández-Sánchez, J; Hernández-Sánchez; Guarneros, G; Guarneros, G; Guarneros	J Bacteriol
10757747	Recombination enhancement by replication (RER) in Rhizobium etli.	Studies in several organisms show that recombination and replication interact closely. Recombinational repair usually requires associated replication at some stage; moreover, additional replication can induce recombination through either homologous or illegitimate events. In prokaryotes, stimulation of recombination by replication is more dramatic when rolling circle replication is employed. In contrast, theta-type replication induces only a modest increase in recombination frequency. In this article, we show that induction of theta-type replication from a supernumerary origin in the symbiotic plasmid (pSym) of Rhizobium etli leads to a 1000-fold increase in deletion formation on this plasmid. These deletions span 120 kb (the symbiotic region) and have as endpoints the reiterated nitrogenase operons. We have named this phenomenon RER, for recombination enhancement by replication. RER is not affected by the position of the replication origin in the pSym, the direction of advance of the replication fork, or the distance from the origin to the recombining repeats. On the other hand, RER is dependent on an active recA allele, indicating that it is due to homologous recombination. RER displays a strong regionality restricted to the symbiotic region. The similarities and differences of RER with the recombination process observed at the terminus of replication of the Escherichia coli chromosome are discussed.	2000 Mar	Valencia-Morales, E; Valencia-Morales, E; Valencia-Morales; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero	Genetics
10808067	Plant regeneration from callus and suspension cultures of Valeriana edulis ssp. procera via simultaneous organogenesis and somatic embryogenesis.	Plants of the genus Valeriana produce irioid esters of biotechnological interest, known as valepotriates. The regeneration of Valeriana edulis ssp. procera via indirect organogenesis and somatic embryogenesis from leaf-derived callus and suspension cultures, is presented. For induction of callus, leaves were cultured on semisolid MS medium supplemented with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and kinetin. Embryogenic and organogenic callus development was observed after 16 weeks. Calli were transferred to semisolid and liquid Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with kinetin and 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). Appearance of shoot and somatic embryo occurred 4 weeks later. Shoots were rooted and somatic embryos were germinated and were transferred to the greenhouse. A better organogenic and embryogenic response was observed from suspension cultures. Histological observations of morphogenic callus revealed that both somatic embryos and shoots arose from the same type of callus.	2000 Feb	Castillo, P; Castillo; Márquez, J; Márquez; Rubluo, A; Rubluo; Hernández, G; Hernández; Lara, M; Lara	Plant Sci
10675553	Characterization of Arabidopsis AtAMT2, a novel ammonium transporter in plants.	We have cloned and characterized the first member of a novel family of ammonium transporters in plants: AtAMT2 from Arabidopsis thaliana. AtAMT2 is more closely related to bacterial ammonium transporters than to plant transporters of the AMT1 family. The protein was expressed and functionally characterized in yeast. AtAMT2 transported ammonium in an energy-dependent manner. In contrast to transporters of the AMT1 family, however, AtAMT2 did not transport the ammonium analogue, methylammonium. AtAMT2 was expressed more highly in shoots than roots and was subject to nitrogen regulation.	2000 Feb	Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Shelden, M; Shelden, M; Shelden; Howitt, S; Howitt, S; Howitt; Udvardi, M; Udvardi, M; Udvardi	FEBS Lett
10675620	Role of the ruvB gene in homologous and homeologous recombination in Rhizobium etli.	The Rhizobium etli ruvA and ruvB genes were cloned through a PCR-based approach, using degenerate primers matching conserved sectors in the amino acid sequences of RuvB from eight bacterial species. Comparative analysis of the predicted polypeptides for RuvA and RuvB of R. etli showed highly conserved blocks with the corresponding homologs in other bacteria; RuvB depicts characteristic motifs for DNA helicases (ATP-binding and DEXH-box motifs). An R. etli ruvB::loxP Sp mutant was constructed by interposon mutagenesis. This mutant was highly sensitive to DNA-damaging agents, such as methyl methanesulfonate and nitrofurantoin, implying a deficiency in DNA repair. Homologous and homeologous conjugational recombination was reduced almost tenfold in the ruvB::loxP Sp mutant; a recombination defect was also observed in assays employing recombination between small plasmids, albeit at a smaller magnitude. Although the ruvA and ruvB genes are contiguous in R. etli, complementation studies suggest that they are expressed independently.	2000 Feb	Martinez-Salazar, J M; Martinez-Salazar, JM; Martinez-Salazar; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero	Gene
10641039	A web site for the computational analysis of yeast regulatory sequences.	A series of computer programs were developed for the analysis of regulatory sequences, with a special focus on yeast. These tools are publicly available on the web (http://copan.cifn.unam. mx/Computational_Biology/yeast-tools or http://www.ucmb.ulb.ac. be/bioinformatics/rsa-tools/). Basically, three classical problems can be addressed: (a) search for known regulatory patterns in the upstream regions of known genes; (b) discovery of unknown regulatory patterns within a set of upstream regions known to be co-regulated; (c) search for unknown genes potentially regulated by a known transcription factor. Each of these tasks can be performed on basis of a simple (string) or more refined (matrix) description of the regulatory patterns. A feature-map program automatically generates visual representations of the positions at which patterns were found. The site also provides a series of general utilities, such as generation of random sequence, automatic drawing of XY graphs, interconversions between sequence formats, etc. Several tools are linked together to allow their sequential utilization (piping), but each one can also be used independently by filling the web form with external data. This widens the scope of the site to the analysis of non-regulatory and/or non-yeast sequences.	2000 Jan	van Helden, J; van Helden, J; van Helden; André, B; André, B; André; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Yeast
10938793	Decreased NADH glutamate synthase activity in nodules and flowers of alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) transformed with an antisense glutamate synthase transgene.	Legumes obtain a substantial portion of their nitrogen (N) from symbiotic N2 fixation in root nodules. The glutamine synthetase (GS, EC 6.3.1.2)/glutamate synthase (GOGAT) cycle is responsible for the initial N assimilation. This report describes the analysis of a transgenic alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) line containing an antisense NADH-GOGAT (EC 1.4.1.14) under the control of the nodule-enhanced aspartate amino-transferase (AAT-2) promoter. In one transgenic line, NADH-GOGAT enzyme activity was reduced to approximately 50%, with a corresponding reduction in protein and mRNA. The transcript abundance for cytosolic GS, ferredoxin-dependent GOGAT (EC 1.4.7.1), AAT-2 (EC 2.6.1.1), asparagine synthase (EC 6.3.5.4), and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPC, EC 4.1.1.31) were unaffected, as were enzyme activities for AAT, PEPC and GS. Antisense NADH-GOGAT plants grown under symbiotic conditions were moderately chlorotic and reduced in growth and N content, even though symbiotic N2 fixation was not significantly reduced. The addition of nitrate relieved the chlorosis and restored growth and N content. Surprisingly, the antisense NADH-GOGAT plants were male sterile resulting from inviable pollen. A reduction in NADH-GOGAT enzyme activity and transcript abundance in the antisense plants was measured during the early stages of flower development. Inheritance of the transgene was stable and resulted in progeny with a range of NADH-GOGAT activity. These data indicate that NADH-GOGAT plays a critical role in the assimilation of symbiotically fixed N and during pollen development.	2000 Jan	Schoenbeck, M A; Schoenbeck, MA; Schoenbeck; Temple, S J; Temple, SJ; Temple; Trepp, G B; Trepp, GB; Trepp; Blumenthal, J M; Blumenthal, JM; Blumenthal; Samac, D A; Samac, DA; Samac; Gantt, J S; Gantt, JS; Gantt; Hernandez, G; Hernandez, G; Hernandez; Vance, C P; Vance, CP; Vance	J Exp Bot
10784042	Expression and purification of four different rhizobial acyl carrier proteins.	In rhizobia, besides the constitutive acyl carrier protein (AcpP) involved in the biosynthesis and transfer of common fatty acids, there are at least three specialized acyl carrier proteins (ACPs): (1) the flavonoid-inducible nodulation protein NodF; (2) the RkpF protein, which is required for the biosynthesis of rhizobial capsular polysaccharides; and (3) AcpXL, which transfers 27-hydroxyoctacosanoic acid to a sugar backbone during lipid A biosynthesis. Whereas the nucleotide sequences encoding the three specialized ACPs are known, only the amino acid sequence of the AcpP of Sinorhizobium meliloti was available. In this study, using reverse genetics, the genes for the constitutive AcpPs of S. meliloti and of Rhizobium leguminosarum were cloned and sequenced. Previously, it had been shown that NodF and RkpF can be overproduced in Escherichia coli using the T7 polymerase expression system. Using the same system, the constitutive AcpPs of S. meliloti and of R. leguminosarum, together with the specialized ACP AcpXL, were overproduced and purified. All the known ACPs of rhizobia can be labelled in vivo during expression in E. coli with radioactive beta-alanine added to the growth medium due to their modification with a 4'-phosphopantetheine prosthetic group. The availability of all functionally different ACPs should help to unravel how different fatty acids are targeted towards different biosynthetic pathways in one organism.	2000 Apr	López-Lara, Isabel M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Geiger, Otto; Geiger, O; Geiger	Microbiology (Reading)
10790517	Natural Endophytic Occurrence of Acetobacter diazotrophicus in Pineapple Plants.	The presence of endophytic Acetobacter diazotrophicus was tested for pineapple plants (Ananas comosus [L.] Merr.) grown in the field. Diazotrophic bacteria were isolated from the inner tissues of surface sterilized roots, stems, and leaves of pineapple plants. Phenotypic tests permitted the selection of presumptive nitrogen-fixing A. diazotrophicus isolates. Restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs) of small subunit (SSU) rDNA using total DNA digested with endonuclease SphI and with endonuclease NcoI, hybridizations of RNA with an A. diazotrophicus large subunit (LSU) rRNA specific probe, as well as patterns in denaturing protein electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and multilocus enzyme tests allowed the identification of A. diazotrophicus isolates. High frequencies of isolation were obtained from propagative buds that had not been nitrogen-fertilized, and lower frequencies from 3-month-old plants that had been nitrogen-fertilized. No isolates were recovered from 5- to 7-month-old nitrogen-fertilized plants. All the A. diazotrophicus isolates recovered from pineapple plants belonged to the multilocus genotype which shows the most extensive distribution among all host species previously analyzed. </hea	2000 Jan	Tapia-Hernández, A; Tapia-Hernández; Bustillos-Cristales, MR; Bustillos-Cristales; Jiménez-Salgado, T; Jiménez-Salgado; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Fuentes-Ramírez, LE; Fuentes-Ramírez	Microb Ecol
10826800	Polyphasic characterization of rhizobia that nodulate Phaseolus vulgaris in West Africa (Senegal and Gambia).	Fifty-eight new isolates were obtained from root nodules of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) cultivated in soils originating from different agroecological areas in Senegal and Gambia (West Africa). A polyphasic approach including both phenotypic and genotypic techniques was used to study the diversity of the 58 Rhizobium isolates and to determine their taxonomic relationships with reference strains. All the techniques performed, analysis of multilocus enzyme electrophoretic patterns, SDS-PAGE profiles of total cell proteins, PCR-RFLP analysis of the genes encoding 16S rRNA and of the 16S-23S RNA intergenic spacer region (ITS-PCR-RFLP), auxanographic tests using API galleries and nodulation tests lead to the consensus conclusion that the new rhizobial isolates formed two main distinct groups, I and II, belonging to Rhizobium tropici type B and Rhizobium etli, respectively. By MLEE R. etli and group II strains showed several related electrophoretic types, evidencing some extent of internal heterogeneity among them. This heterogeneity was confirmed by other techniques (ITS-PCR-RFLP, SDS-PAGE and host-plant-specificity) with the same nine distinct strains of group II showing some differences from the core of group II (54 strains).	2000 Jan	Diouf, A; Diouf, A; Diouf; de Lajudie, P; de Lajudie, P; de Lajudie; Neyra, M; Neyra, M; Neyra; Kersters, K; Kersters, K; Kersters; Gillis, M; Gillis, M; Gillis; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Gueye, M; Gueye, M; Gueye	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol
10613884	Promoter interference in a bacteriophage lambda control region: effects of a range of interpromoter distances.	The p(R) and p(RM) promoters of bacteriophage lambda direct transcription in divergent directions from start sites separated by 83 phosphodiester bonds. We had previously shown that the presence of an RNA polymerase at p(R) interfered with open complex formation at p(RM) and that this effect was alleviated by the deletion of 10 bp between the two promoters. Here we present a detailed characterization of the dependence of the interference on the interpromoter distance. It was found that the reduced interference between the two promoters is unique to the 10-bp deletion. The relief of interference was demonstrated to be due to the facilitation of a step subsequent to RNA polymerase binding to the p(RM) promoter. A model to explain these observations is proposed. A search of known Escherichia coli promoters identified three pairs of divergent promoters with similar separations to those investigated here.	2000 Jan	Strainic, M G; Strainic, MG; Strainic; Sullivan, J J; Sullivan, JJ; Sullivan; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; deHaseth, P L; deHaseth, PL; deHaseth	J Bacteriol
10592182	RegulonDB (version 3.0): transcriptional regulation and operon organization in Escherichia coli K-12.	RegulonDB is a database on transcription regulation and operon organization in Escherichia coli. The current version describes regulatory signals of transcription initiation, promoters, regulatory binding sites of specific regulators, ribosome binding sites and terminators, as well as information on genes clustered in operons. These specific annotations have been gathered from a constant search in the literature, as well as based on computational sequence predictions. The genomic coordinates of all these objects in the E.coli K-12 chromosome are clearly indicated. Every known object has a link to at least one MEDLINE reference. We have also added direct links to recent expression data of E.coli K-12. The version presented here has important modifications both in the structure of the database, as well as in the amount and type of information encoded in the database. RegulonDB can be accessed on the web at URL: http://www.cifn.unam. mx/Computational_Biology/regulondb/	2000 Jan	Salgado, H; Salgado, H; Salgado; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta, A; Santos-Zavaleta; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro, S; Gama-Castro; Millán-Zárate, D; Millán-Zárate, D; Millán-Zárate; Blattner, F R; Blattner, FR; Blattner; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
10673011	Repeated sequences in bacterial chromosomes and plasmids: a glimpse from sequenced genomes.	To gain insight into the extent of exact DNA repeats in sequenced bacterial genomes and their plasmids, we analyzed the collection of completely sequenced bacterial genomes available at GenBank using the program Miropeats. This program draws graphical representations of exact DNA repeats in whole genomes. In this work, we present maps showing the extent and type (inverted or direct) of exact DNA repeats longer than 300 bp for the whole collection. These repeats may participate in a variety of events relevant for bacterial genome plasticity, such as amplifications, deletions, inversions, and translocations (via homologous recombination), as well as transposition. Additionally, we review recent data showing that high-frequency architectural variations in genomic structure occur at both the interspecies and interstrain levels.	1999 Nov-Dec	Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Martínez-Salazar, J; Martínez-Salazar, J; Martínez-Salazar; Ortiz, E; Ortiz, E; Ortiz; Rodríguez, C; Rodríguez, C; Rodríguez; Valencia-Morales, E; Valencia-Morales, E; Valencia-Morales	Res Microbiol
10535912	Identification of lumichrome as a sinorhizobium enhancer of alfalfa root respiration and shoot growth.	Sinorhizobium meliloti bacteria produce a signal molecule that enhances root respiration in alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) and also triggers a compensatory increase in whole-plant net carbon assimilation. Nuclear magnetic resonance, mass spectrometry, and ultraviolet-visible absorption identify the enhancer as lumichrome, a common breakdown product of riboflavin. Treating alfalfa roots with 3 nM lumichrome increased root respiration 21% (P < 0.05) within 48 h. A closely linked increase in net carbon assimilation by the shoot compensated for the enhanced root respiration. For example, applying 5 nM lumichrome to young alfalfa roots increased plant growth by 8% (P < 0.05) after 12 days. Soaking alfalfa seeds in 5 nM lumichrome before germination increased growth by 18% (P < 0.01) over the same period. In both cases, significant growth enhancement (P < 0.05) was evident only in the shoot. S. meliloti requires exogenous CO2 for growth and may benefit directly from the enhanced root respiration that is triggered by lumichrome. Thus Sinorhizobium-alfalfa associations, which ultimately form symbiotic N2-reducing root nodules, may be favored at an early developmental stage by lumichrome, a previously unrecognized mutualistic signal. The rapid degradation of riboflavin to lumichrome under many physiological conditions and the prevalence of riboflavin release by rhizosphere bacteria suggest that events demonstrated here in the S. meliloti-alfalfa association may be widely important across many plant-microbe interactions.	1999 Oct	Phillips, D A; Phillips, DA; Phillips; Joseph, C M; Joseph, CM; Joseph; Yang, G P; Yang, GP; Yang; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Sanborn, J R; Sanborn, JR; Sanborn; Volpin, H; Volpin, H; Volpin	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
10555327	Characterization of bacteria isolated from wild legumes in the north-western regions of China.	Nodule isolates from 11 species of wild legumes in north-western China were characterized by numerical taxonomy, PCR-based 16S rRNA gene RFLP and sequence analyses, DNA-DNA hybridization, restriction patterns of nodDAB and nifH genes, and symbiotic properties. Based on the results of numerical taxonomy, most of the 35 new isolates were grouped into five clusters (clusters 7, 9, 12, 14 and 15). Clusters 7 and 12 were identified as Mesorhizobium amorphae and Agrobacterium tumefaciens, respectively, based on their high DNA homologies with the reference strains for these species, their 16S rRNA gene analysis and their phenotypic features. Results of 16S rDNA PCR-RFLP analysis showed that cluster 9 belonged to Rhizobium. Clusters 14 and 15 were identified as Mesorhizobium based on their moderately slow-growing, acid-producing characters and the high similarity of their 16S rDNA PCR-RFLP patterns to those of Mesorhizobium species. These two clusters were genomic species distinct from all described species based on analysis of DNA relatedness within this genus. The isolates in cluster 12 (Agrobacterium tumefaciens) failed to nodulate their original host and other selected hosts and they did not hybridize to nif or nod gene probes. The possibility of opportunistic nodulation of these isolates is discussed. Identical restriction patterns were obtained in the nif or nod gene hybridization studies from the three isolates within cluster 15, which were isolated from the same host species. The isolates from different host plants in each of clusters 9 and 14 produced different nodDAB RFLP patterns, but similar nifH RFLP patterns appeared (one band for each isolate). Different patterns were observed among different clusters from both the nod and nif gene hybridization studies. Crossnodulation was recorded among the isolates and the host plants in the same cluster and promiscuous properties were found among some of the hosts tested.	1999 Oct	Tan, Z Y; Tan, ZY; Tan; Wang, E T; Wang, ET; Wang; Peng, G X; Peng, GX; Peng; Zhu, M E; Zhu, ME; Zhu; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Chen, W X; Chen, WX; Chen	Int J Syst Bacteriol
10508927	Escherichia coli TEM1 beta-lactamase in CTAB reverse micelles: exchange/diffusion-limited catalysis.	We report kinetic data of penicillin hydrolysis catalyzed by beta-lactamase entrapped in reverse micelles formed with cetyl trimethylammonium bromide (CTAB), n-octane, hexanol and aqueous buffer. The K(cat) of this diffusion-limited reaction can be improved in aqueous buffer by a factor of 1.1-1.2 just by increasing the phosphate buffer concentration from 50 to 100 mM. In reverse micelles, increasing the buffer concentration has little effect on K(cat) when the size of the empty micelle is below the size of the protein. However, in larger micelles, the effect is enhanced and the K(cat) improves several fold, changing the form of the curve of K(cat) versus Wo from bell-shaped to almost hyperbolic. The results indicate that micellar exchange and internal diffusion may limit the reaction in reverse micelles and provide further evidence that the form of the curve depends on other factors besides the relationship between the size of the enzyme and that of the empty reverse micelle.	1999 Oct	Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb, G; Moreno-Hagelsieb; Gómez-Puyou, A; Gómez-Puyou, A; Gómez-Puyou; Soberon, X; Soberon, X; Soberon	FEBS Lett
10555329	Rhizobium etli bv. mimosae, a novel biovar isolated from Mimosa affinis.	Fifty rhizobial isolates from root nodules of Mimosa affinis, a small leguminous plant native to Mexico, were identified as Rhizobium etli on the basis of the results of PCR-RFLP and RFLP analyses of small-subunit rRNA genes, multilocus enzyme electrophoresis and DNA-DNA homology. They are, however, a restricted group of lineages with low genetic diversity within the species. The isolates from M. affinis differed-from the R. etli strains that orginated from bean plants (Phaseolus vulgaris) in the size and replicator region of the symbiotic plasmid and in symbiotic-plasmid-borne traits such as nifH gene sequence and organization, melanin production and host specificity. A new biovar, bv. mimosae, is proposed within R. etli to encompass Rhizobium isolates obtained from M. affinis. The strains from common bean plants have been designated previously as R. etli bv. phaseoli. Strains of both R. etli biovars could nodulate P. vulgaris, but only those of bv. mimosae could form nitrogen-fixing nodules on Leucaena leucocephala.	1999 Oct	Wang, E T; Wang, ET; Wang; Rogel, M A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; García-de los Santos, A; García-de los Santos, A; García-de los Santos; Martínez-Romero, J; Martínez-Romero, J; Martínez-Romero; Cevallos, M A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Int J Syst Bacteriol
10494633	Phaseolus vulgaris recognizes Azorhizobium caulinodans Nod factors with a variety of chemical substituents.	Phaseolus vulgaris is a promiscuous host plant that can be nodulated by many different rhizobia representing a wide spectrum of Nod factors. In this study, we introduced the Rhizobium tropici CFN299 Nod factor sulfation genes nodHPQ into Azorhizobium caulinodans. The A. caulinodans transconjugants produce Nod factors that are mostly if not all sulfated and often with an arabinosyl residue as the reducing end glycosylation. Using A. caulinodans mutant strains, affected in reducing end decorations, and their respective transconjugants in a bean nodulation assay, we demonstrated that bean nodule induction efficiency, in decreasing order, is modulated by the Nod factor reducing end decorations fucose, arabinose or sulfate, and hydrogen.	1999 Sep	Laeremans, T; Laeremans, T; Laeremans; Snoeck, C; Snoeck, C; Snoeck; Mariën, J; Mariën, J; Mariën; Verreth, C; Verreth, C; Verreth; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Promé, J C; Promé, JC; Promé; Vanderleyden, J; Vanderleyden, J; Vanderleyden	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
10391951	Plant-exuded choline is used for rhizobial membrane lipid biosynthesis by phosphatidylcholine synthase.	Phosphatidylcholine is a major lipid of eukaryotic membranes, but found in only few prokaryotes. Enzymatic methylation of phosphatidylethanolamine by phospholipid N-methyltransferase was thought to be the only biosynthetic pathway to yield phosphatidylcholine in bacteria. However, mutants of the microsymbiotic soil bacterium Sinorhizobium (Rhizobium) meliloti, defective in phospholipid N-methyltransferase, form phosphatidylcholine in wild type amounts when choline is provided in the growth medium. Here we describe a second bacterial pathway for phosphatidylcholine biosynthesis involving the novel enzymatic activity, phosphatidylcholine synthase, that forms phosphatidylcholine directly from choline and CDP-diacylglycerol in cell-free extracts of S. meliloti. We further demonstrate that roots of host plants of S. meliloti exude choline and that the amounts of exuded choline are sufficient to allow for maximal phosphatidylcholine biosynthesis in S. meliloti via the novel pathway.	1999 Jul	de Rudder, K E; de Rudder, KE; de Rudder; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp, C; Sohlenkamp; Geiger, O; Geiger, O; Geiger	J Biol Chem
10347066	Increase in alfalfa nodulation, nitrogen fixation, and plant growth by specific DNA amplification in Sinorhizobium meliloti.	To improve symbiotic nitrogen fixation on alfalfa plants, Sinorhizobium meliloti strains containing different average copy numbers of a symbiotic DNA region were constructed by specific DNA amplification (SDA). A DNA fragment containing a regulatory gene (nodD1), the common nodulation genes (nodABC), and an operon essential for nitrogen fixation (nifN) from the nod regulon region of the symbiotic plasmid pSyma of S. meliloti was cloned into a plasmid unable to replicate in this organism. The plasmid then was integrated into the homologous DNA region of S. meliloti strains 41 and 1021, which resulted in a duplication of the symbiotic region. Sinorhizobium derivatives carrying further amplification were selected by growing the bacteria in increased concentrations of an antibiotic marker present in the integrated vector. Derivatives of strain 41 containing averages of 3 and 6 copies and a derivative of strain 1021 containing an average of 2.5 copies of the symbiotic region were obtained. In addition, the same region was introduced into both strains as a multicopy plasmid, yielding derivatives with an average of seven copies per cell. Nodulation, nitrogenase activity, plant nitrogen content, and plant growth were analyzed in alfalfa plants inoculated with the different strains. The copy number of the symbiotic region was critical in determining the plant phenotype. In the case of the strains with a moderate increase in copy number, symbiotic properties were improved significantly. The inoculation of alfalfa with these strains resulted in an enhancement of plant growth.	1999 Jun	Castillo, M; Castillo, M; Castillo; Flores, M; Flores, M; Flores; Mavingui, P; Mavingui, P; Mavingui; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios; Hernández, G; Hernández, G; Hernández	Appl Environ Microbiol
10223993	Enhanced nitrogen fixation in a rhizobium etli ntrC mutant that overproduces the bradyrhizobium japonicum symbiotic terminal oxidase cbb3 	The ntrC gene codes for a transcriptional activator protein that modulates gene expression in response to nitrogen. The cytochrome production pattern of a Rhizobium etli ntrC mutant (CFN2012) was studied. CO difference spectral analysis of membranes showed that CFN2012 produced a terminal oxidase similar to the symbiotic terminal oxidase of bacteroids in free-living cells under aerobic conditions, with a characteristic trough at 553 nm. CFN2012 produced two c-type cytochromes with molecular masses of 27 and 32 kDa, in contrast with the wild-type strain, which produced only a 32-kDa c-type cytochrome. The expression levels of the R. etli fixNOQP operon, which codes for terminal oxidase cbb3, were not affected by the ntrC mutation. However, the production levels of the two c-type cytochromes (27 and 32 kDa) were enhanced at least eightfold when the Bradyrhizobium japonicum fixNOQP operon was expressed in CFN2012 from the nptII promoter (pMSfixc), suggesting that these proteins are subunits FixO (27 kDa) and FixP (32 kDa) of cbb3 and that CFN2012/pMSfixc overproduced this terminal oxidase. CFN2012/pMSfixc showed a significant increase in its symbiotic performance as judged by the determination of nitrogenase activities of plants inoculated with this strain, suggesting that the overproduction of cbb3 terminal oxidase correlates with an enhancement in symbiotic nitrogen fixation.	1999 May	Soberon, M; Soberon; Lopez, O; Lopez; Morera, C; Morera; Girard, ML; Girard; Tabche, ML; Tabche; Miranda, J; Miranda	Appl Environ Microbiol
10065560	The nolL gene from Rhizobium etli determines nodulation efficiency by mediating the acetylation of the fucosyl residue in the nodulation factor.	The nodulation factors (Nod factors) of Rhizobium etli and R. loti carry a 4-O-acetyl-L-fucosyl group at the reducing end. It has been claimed, based on sequence analysis, that NolL from R. loti participates in the 4-O-acetylation of the fucosyl residue of the Nod factors, as an acetyl-transferase (D. B. Scott, C. A. Young, J. M. Collins-Emerson, E. A. Terzaghi, E. S. Rockman, P. A. Lewis, and C. E. Pankhurst. Mol. Plant-Microbe Interact. 9:187-197, 1996). Further support for this hypothesis was obtained by studying the production of Nod factors in an R. etli nolL::Km mutant. Chromatographic and mass spectrometry analysis of the Nod factors produced by this strain showed that they lack the acetyl-fucosyl substituent, having a fucosyl group instead. Acetyl-fucosylation was restored upon complementation with a wild-type nolL gene. These results indicate that the nolL gene determines 4-O-acetylation of the fucosyl residue in Nod factors. Analysis of the predicted NolL polypeptide suggests a transmembranal location and that it belongs to the family of integral membrane transacylases (J. M. Slauch, A. A. Lee, M. J. Mahan, and J. J. Mekalanos. J. Bacteriol. 178:5904-5909, 1996). NolL from R. loti was also proposed to function as a transporter; our results show that NolL does not determine a differential secretion of Nod factors from the cell. We also performed plant assays that indicate that acetylation of the fucose conditions efficient nodulation by R. etli of some Phaseolus vulgaris cultivars, as well as of an alternate host (Vigna umbellata).	1999 Mar	Corvera, A; Corvera, A; Corvera; Promé, D; Promé, D; Promé; Promé, J C; Promé, JC; Promé; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
10028247	Diversity of rhizobia associated with Amorpha fruticosa isolated from Chinese soils and description of Mesorhizobium amorphae sp. nov.	Fifty-five Chinese isolates from nodules of Amorpha fruticosa were characterized and compared with the type strains of the species and genera of bacteria which form nitrogen-fixing symbioses with leguminous host plants. A polyphasic approach, which included RFLP of PCR-amplified 16S rRNA genes, multilocus enzyme electrophoresis (MLEE), DNA-DNA hybridization, 16S rRNA gene sequencing, electrophoretic plasmid profiles, cross-nodulation and a phenotypic study, was used in the comparative analysis. The isolates originated from several different sites in China and they varied in their phenotypic and genetic characteristics. The majority of the isolates had moderate to slow growth rates, produced acid on YMA and harboured a 930 kb symbiotic plasmid (pSym). Five different RFLP patterns were identified among the 16S rRNA genes of all the isolates. Isolates grouped by PCR-RFLP of the 16S rRNA genes were also separated into groups by variation in MLEE profiles and by DNA-DNA hybridization. A representative isolate from each of these DNA homology groups had a separate position in a phylogenetic tree as determined from sequencing analysis of the 16S rRNA genes. A new species, Mesorhizobium amorphae, is proposed for the majority of the isolates, which belonged to a moderately slow- to slow-growing, acid-producing group based upon their distinct phylogenetic position, their unique electrophoretic type, their low DNA homology with reference strains representing the species within the genus Mesorhizobium and their distinct phenotypic features. Strain ACCC 19665 was chosen as the type strain for M. amorphae sp. nov.	1999 Jan	Wang, E T; Wang, ET; Wang; van Berkum, P; van Berkum, P; van Berkum; Sui, X H; Sui, XH; Sui; Beyene, D; Beyene, D; Beyene; Chen, W X; Chen, WX; Chen; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Int J Syst Bacteriol
9847141	RegulonDB (version 2.0): a database on transcriptional regulation in Escherichia coli.	RegulonDB version 2.0, a database on transcriptional regulation and operon organization in Escherichia coli, is now available on the web at the following URL: http://www.cifn.unam. mx/Computational_Biology/regulondb/. In this paper we describe the main computational changes to the database, which include migrating the database to Sybase, providing graphical descriptions of the internal organization of operons and regulons, and direct links to MEDLINE references. The web interface offers searching either by mechanisms of regulation or by operon organization. The results of a search (operon organization, or site collection) are displayed as hypertext, and can also be displayed graphically. In terms of its contents, RegulonDB contains a large number of operons, as well as the absolute position in the completed genome sequence of sites, promoters, and individual genes of E.coli.	1999 Jan	Salgado, H; Salgado, H; Salgado; Santos, A; Santos, A; Santos; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos; van Helden, J; van Helden, J; van Helden; Díaz, E; Díaz, E; Díaz; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
10235650	The modularity of biological regulatory networks.	A useful approach to complex regulatory networks consists of modeling their elements and interactions by Boolean equations. In this context, feedback circuits (i.e. circular sequences of interactions) have been shown to play key dynamical roles: whereas positive circuits are able to generate multistationarity, negative circuits may generate oscillatory behavior. In this paper, we principally focus on the case of gene networks. These are represented by fully connected Boolean networks where each element interacts with all elements including itself. Flexibility in network design is introduced by the use of Boolean parameters, one associated with each interaction or group of interactions affecting a given element. Within this formalism, a feedback circuit will generate its typical dynamical behavior (i.e. multistationarity or oscillations) only for appropriate values of some of the logical parameters. Whenever it does, we say that the circuit is 'functional'. More interestingly, this formalism allows the computation of the constraints on the logical parameters to have any feedback circuit functional in a network. Using this methodology, we found that the fraction of the total number of consistent combinations of parameter values that make a circuit functional decreases geometrically with the circuit length. From a biological point of view, this suggests that regulatory networks could be decomposed into small and relatively independent feedback circuits or 'regulatory modules'.	1999 Apr	Thieffry, D; Thieffry, D; Thieffry; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero	Biosystems
9773278	Isolation and sequencing of a second Rhizobium tropici CFN299 genetic locus that contains genes homologous to amino acid sulphate activation genes.	A Rhizobium tropici CFN299 DNA region, homologous to genes involved in Nod factor synthesis and amino acid sulphate activation, was isolated from a genome library. DNA sequence analysis revealed two open reading frames, orf1 and orf2. orf1 showed highest sequence similarity to the Escherichia coli cysD gene while orf2 is closely related to Rhizobium sp. N33 nodQ. However, the orf2 deduced peptide is 152 amino acids shorter than Rhizobium sp. N33 NodQ, and lacks the 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulphate-binding motif. A dendrogram based on the alignment of the deduced amino acid sequences of orf2/nodQ/cysN genes separated Escherichia coli cysN and orf2 from the nodQ cluster. Upstream of orf1, partial sequence analysis revealed the 3' part of an orf that is highly similar to E. coli cysH. The G + C content of orf1 and orf2 differs significantly from the G + C content of R. tropici symbiotic sulphate activation nodPQ genes. This data suggests that the isolated R. tropici CFN299 locus contains housekeeping genes for amino acid sulphate activation.	1998 Mar	Laeremans, T; Laeremans, T; Laeremans; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Vanderleyden, J; Vanderleyden, J; Vanderleyden	DNA Seq
9924818	Phylogenetic identification of two major nitrogen-fixing bacteria associated with sugarcane.	Acetobacter diazotrophicus and Herbaspirillum seropedicae were identified by genetic methods based on 16S rRNA sequences. A specific PCR method in combination with probing was developed for A. diazotrophicus. The PCR system includes four primers, of which the primers named AC (CTGTTTCCCGCAAGGGAC) and DI (GCGCCCCATTGCTGGGTT) generated an 445 bp amplicon in all of the 11 A. diazotrophicus strains tested. The phylogenetic position of H. seropedicae was determined. H. seropedicae forms with Oxalobacter formigenes a separate lineage in the beta-subclass of Proteobacteria.	1998 Dec	Sievers, M; Sievers, M; Sievers; Schlegel, H G; Schlegel, HG; Schlegel; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Döbereiner, J; Döbereiner, J; Döbereiner; Ludwig, W; Ludwig, W; Ludwig	Syst Appl Microbiol
9811668	Three replicons of Rhizobium sp. Strain NGR234 harbor symbiotic gene sequences.	Rhizobium sp. strain NGR234 contains three replicons: the symbiotic plasmid or pNGR234a, a megaplasmid (pNGR234b), and the chromosome. Symbiotic gene sequences not present in pNGR234a were analyzed by hybridization. DNA sequences homologous to the genes fixLJKNOPQGHIS were found on the chromosome, while sequences homologous to nodPQ and exoBDFLK were found on pNGR234b.	1998 Nov	Flores, M; Flores, M; Flores; Mavingui, P; Mavingui, P; Mavingui; Girard, L; Girard, L; Girard; Perret, X; Perret, X; Perret; Broughton, W J; Broughton, WJ; Broughton; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Dávila, G; Dávila, G; Dávila; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios	J Bacteriol
9748438	Poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate turnover in Azorhizobium caulinodans is required for growth and affects nifA expression.	Azorhizobium caulinodans is able to fix nitrogen in the free-living state and in symbiosis with the tropical legume Sesbania rostrata. The bacteria accumulate poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate (PHB) under both conditions. The structural gene for PHB synthase, phbC, was inactivated by insertion of an interposon. The mutant strains obtained were devoid of PHB, impaired in their growth properties, totally devoid of nitrogenase activity ex planta (Nif-), and affected in nucleotide pools and induced Fix- nodules devoid of bacteria. The Nif- phenotype was the consequence of the lack of nifA transcription. Nitrogenase activity was partially restored to a phbC mutant by constitutive expression of the nifA gene. However, this constitutive nifA expression had no effect on the nucleotide content or on growth of the phbC mutant. It is suggested that PHB is required for maintaining the reducing power of the cell and therefore the bacterial growth. These observations also suggest a new control of nifA expression to adapt nitrogen fixation to the availability of carbon and reducing equivalents.	1998 Oct	Mandon, K; Mandon, K; Mandon; Michel-Reydellet, N; Michel-Reydellet, N; Michel-Reydellet; Encarnación, S; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Kaminski, P A; Kaminski, PA; Kaminski; Leija, A; Leija, A; Leija; Cevallos, M A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Elmerich, C; Elmerich, C; Elmerich; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
9682052	Prediction of transcriptional regulatory sites in the complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.	As one of the best-characterized free-living organisms, Escherichia coli and its recently completed genomic sequence offer a special opportunity to exploit systematically the variety of regulatory data available in the literature in order to make a comprehensive set of regulatory predictions in the whole genome.	1998 Jun	Thieffry, D; Thieffry, D; Thieffry; Salgado, H; Salgado, H; Salgado; Huerta, A M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Bioinformatics
9719638	Extracting regulatory sites from the upstream region of yeast genes by computational analysis of oligonucleotide frequencies.	We present here a simple and fast method allowing the isolation of DNA binding sites for transcription factors from families of coregulated genes, with results illustrated in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Although conceptually simple, the algorithm proved efficient for extracting, from most of the yeast regulatory families analyzed, the upstream regulatory sequences which had been previously found by experimental analysis. Furthermore, putative new regulatory sites are predicted within upstream regions of several regulons. The method is based on the detection of over-represented oligonucleotides. A specificity of this approach is to define the statistical significance of a site based on tables of oligonucleotide frequencies observed in all non-coding sequences from the yeast genome. In contrast with heuristic methods, this oligonucleotide analysis is rigorous and exhaustive. Its range of detection is however limited to relatively simple patterns: short motifs with a highly conserved core. These features seem to be shared by a good number of regulatory sites in yeast. This, and similar methods, should be increasingly required to identify unknown regulatory elements within the numerous new coregulated families resulting from measurements of gene expression levels at the genomic scale. All tools described here are available on the web at the site http://copan.cifn.unam.mx/Computational_Biology/ yeast-tools	1998 Sep	van Helden, J; van Helden, J; van Helden; André, B; André, B; André; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	J Mol Biol
9782512	Glutamine biosynthesis and the utilization of succinate and glutamine by Rhizobium etli and Sinorhizobium meliloti.	Sinorhizobium meliloti 1021 and Rhizobium etli CE3 turn over nitrogen and carbon from glutamine to ammonium and CO2, respectively. Some of the ammonium released is assimilated back into glutamine, indicating that a glutamine cycle similar to that in Neurospora operates in Rhizobium. In addition, a previously unrecognized metabolic pathway in Rhizobium was discovered--namely, conversion of glutamine-carbon to gamma-hydroxybutyric acid and beta-hydroxybutyric acid. Additionally, some of the 2-oxoglutarate derived from glutamine catabolism in Rhizobium is converted to succinate in glutamine-containing medium. Both S. meliloti 1021 and R. etli CE3 oxidize succinate preferentially over glutamine when provided with both carbon sources. In contrast to Sinorhizobium meliloti 1021 and Rhizobium etli CE3, an S. meliloti double mutant that lacks both glutamine synthetase (GS) I and II preferentially oxidizes glutamine over succinate when supplied with both substrates. GSII activity is induced in wild-type S. meliloti 1021 and R. etli CE3 grown in succinate-glutamine medium, and this enzyme participates in the cycling of glutamine-carbon and -nitrogen. On the other hand, GSII activity is repressed in both micro-organisms when glutamine is the only carbon source. These findings show that, in medium containing both glutamine and succinate, glutamine synthesis helps drive the utilization of succinate. When glutamine is in excess as an energy-providing substrate its synthesis is restricted, allowing for more effective utilization of glutamine as an energy source.	1998 Sep	Encarnación, Sergio; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Calderón, Jorge; Calderón, J; Calderón; Gelbard, Alan S; Gelbard, AS; Gelbard; Cooper, Arthur J L; Cooper, AJL; Cooper; Mora, Jaime; Mora, J; Mora	Microbiology (Reading)
9671027	Rhizobium tropici teu genes involved in specific uptake of Phaseolus vulgaris bean-exudate compounds.	Rhizobium tropici nodulates and fixes nitrogen in bean. In the R. tropici strain CFN299 we identified and characterized teu genes (tropici exudate uptake) induced by bean root exudates, localized by insertion of a promoter-less Tn5-gusA1 transposon. teu genes are present on a plasmid of around 185 kb that is conserved in all R. tropici strains. Proteins encoded by teu genes show similarity to ABC transporters, specifically to ribose transport proteins. No induction of the teu genes was obtained by treatment with root exudates from any of several other plants tested, with the exception of Macroptilium atropurpureum, which is also a host plant for R. tropici. It appears that the inducing compound is characteristic of bean and closely related legumes. It is present in root exudates, but not in seeds. This compound is removed, presumably by metabolism, from the exudates by the majority of bean-nodulating rhizobia (such as R. etli, R. leguminosarum bv. phaseoli and R. giardinii). The principal inducing compound has not been identified, but some induction was obtained using trigonelline. The CFN299 strain seems to have an additional uptake system, as no phenotype is observed in two different mutants. R. tropici strain CIAT899, on the other hand, must have only one uptake system, since a mutant bearing an insertion in the teu genes could not remove the compound from the exudates as efficiently as the wild type, and it showed diminished nodulation competitiveness.	1998 Jun	Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Hynes, M F; Hynes, MF; Hynes; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Mol Gen Genet
9649445	lambda bar minigene-mediated inhibition of protein synthesis involves accumulation of peptidyl-tRNA and starvation for tRNA.	Expression of the bacteriophage lambda two-codon, AUG AUA, barI minigene (bar+) leads to the arrest of protein synthesis in cells defective in peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase (Pth). It has been hypothesized that translation of the bar+ transcript provokes premature release and accumulation of peptidyl-tRNA (p-tRNA). Inhibition of protein synthesis would then result from either starvation of sequestered tRNA or from toxicity of accumulated p-tRNA. To test this hypothesis and to investigate the cause of arrest, we used a coupled in vitro transcription-translation system primed with DNA containing bar+ and the beta-lactamase-encoding gene of the vector as a reporter. The results show that expression of bar+ minigene severely inhibits beta-lactamase polypeptide synthesis by Pth-defective extracts and partially inhibits synthesis by wild-type extracts. Fractions enriched for Pth, or a homogeneous preparation of Pth, prevented and reversed bar+-mediated inhibition. A mutant minigene, barA702, which changes the second codon AUA (Ile) to AAA (Lys), was also toxic for Pth-defective cells. Expression of barA702 inhibited in vitro polypeptide synthesis by Pth-defective extracts and, as with bar+, exogenous Pth prevented inhibition. Addition of pure tRNALys prevented inhibition by barA702 but not by bar+. Expression of bar+ and barA702 led to release and accumulation of p-tRNAIle and p-tRNALys respectively but bar+ also induced accumulation of p-tRNALys. Finally, bar+ stimulated association of methionine with ribosomes probably as fMet-tRNAfMet and the accumulation of methionine and isoleucine in solution as peptidyl-tRNA (p-tRNA). These results indicate that minigene-mediated inhibition of protein synthesis involves premature release of p-tRNA, misincorporation of amino acyl-tRNA, accumulation of p-tRNAs and possibly sequestration of tRNAs.	1998 Jul	Hernández-Sánchez, J; Hernández-Sánchez, J; Hernández-Sánchez; Valadez, J G; Valadez, JG; Valadez; Herrera, J V; Herrera, JV; Herrera; Ontiveros, C; Ontiveros, C; Ontiveros; Guarneros, G; Guarneros, G; Guarneros	EMBO J
9734023	Rhizobium huautlense sp. nov., a symbiont of Sesbania herbacea that has a close phylogenetic relationship with Rhizobium galegae.	The nitrogen-fixing rhizobial symbionts of Sesbania herbacea growing in the nature reserve at the Sierra de Huautla, Mexico, were isolated and characterized. All 104 isolates together with the type strain for Rhizobium galegae, HAMBI 540T, had similar 16S rRNA genes as revealed by PCR-RFLP analysis. Similarity in the sequences of the 16S rRNA genes placed the isolates on a phylogenetic branch shared with R. galegae. Among 66 randomly selected isolates, three closely related electrophoretic alloenzyme types (ETs) were identified, which were distinct from 10 ETs distinguished among 23 strains of R. galegae. A new species Rhizobium huautlense, represented by the Sesbania isolate SO2T, is proposed based upon low estimates of DNA relatedness between our chosen type strain and the type strains for the other species, the dissimilarity of the nucleotide sequence of the 16S rRNA genes, and their distinct ETs compared with R. galegae. The description of R. huautlense is significant because in the reconstruction of the phylogeny at R. huautlense there was a shift in the node of the branch of Agrobacterium vitis relative to that of R. galegae. The revised phylogenetic tree would tend to indicate common ancestry between R. galegae and Rhizobium leguminosarum.	1998 Jul	Wang, E T; Wang, ET; Wang; van Berkum, P; van Berkum, P; van Berkum; Beyene, D; Beyene, D; Beyene; Sui, X H; Sui, XH; Sui; Dorado, O; Dorado, O; Dorado; Chen, W X; Chen, WX; Chen; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Int J Syst Bacteriol
9603874	Genes essential for nod factor production and nodulation are located on a symbiotic amplicon (AMPRtrCFN299pc60) in Rhizobium tropici.	Amplifiable DNA regions (amplicons) have been identified in the genome of Rhizobium etli. Here we report the isolation and molecular characterization of a symbiotic amplicon of Rhizobium tropici. To search for symbiotic amplicons, a cartridge containing a kanamycin resistance marker that responds to gene dosage and conditional origins of replication and transfer was inserted in the nodulation region of the symbiotic plasmid (pSym) of R. tropici CFN299. Derivatives harboring amplifications were selected by increasing the concentration of kanamycin in the cell culture. The amplified DNA region was mobilized into Escherichia coli and then into Agrobacterium tumefaciens. The 60-kb symbiotic amplicon, which we termed AMPRtrCFN299pc60, contains several nodulation and nitrogen fixation genes and is flanked by a novel insertion sequence ISRtr1. Amplification of AMPRtrCFN299pc60 through homologous recombination between ISRtr1 repeats increased the amount of Nod factors. Strikingly, the conjugal transfer of the amplicon into a plasmidless A. tumefaciens strain confers on the transconjugant the ability to produce R. tropici Nod factors and to nodulate Phaseolus vulgaris, indicating that R. tropici genes essential for the nodulation process are confined to an ampliable DNA region of the pSym.	1998 Jun	Mavingui, P; Mavingui, P; Mavingui; Laeremans, T; Laeremans, T; Laeremans; Flores, M; Flores, M; Flores; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios	J Bacteriol
9611191	Multiple recombination events maintain sequence identity among members of the nitrogenase multigene family in Rhizobium etli.	A distinctive characteristic of the Rhizobium genome is the frequent finding of reiterated sequences, which often constitute multigene families. Interestingly, these families usually maintain a high degree of nucleotide sequence identity. It is commonly assumed that apparent gene conversion between reiterated elements might lead to concerted variation among members of a multigene family. However, the operation of this mechanism has not yet been demonstrated in the Rhizobiaceae. In this work, we employed different genetic constructions to address the role of apparent gene conversion as a homogenizing mechanism between members of the plasmid-located nitrogenase multigene family in Rhizobium etli. Our results show that a 28-bp insertion into one of the nitrogenase reiterations can be corrected by multiple recombination events, including apparent gene conversion. The correction process was dependent on the presence of both a wild-type recA gene and wild-type copies of the nitrogenase reiterations. Frequencies of apparent gene conversion to the wild-type nitrogenase reiterations were the same when the insertion to be corrected was located either in cis or in trans, indicating that this event frequently occurs through intermolecular interactions. Interestingly, a high frequency of multiple crossovers was observed, suggesting that these large plasmid molecules are engaging repeatedly in recombination events, in a situation akin to phage recombination or recombination among small, high-copy number plasmids.	1998 Jun	Rodríguez, C; Rodríguez, C; Rodríguez; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero	Genetics
9715754	Networks of transcriptional regulation encoded in a grammatical model.	The work here presented enriches a previous grammatical model of the transcriptional regulation of gene expression. The previous model is centered on the representation of the regulatory regions upstream of genes, and their internal organization in the DNA. This paper is centered in discussing some alternatives related to the representation of the organization of operons and their alternative states of transcription, as active or inactive units of transcription. Transformational rules can be used to describe the binding and unbinding of regulatory proteins, and the associated representations of (ON/OFF) gene expression. The initial representation of a regulated promoter is linked to that of the operon encoding its regulatory protein. In this way the representation of a regulated operon depends on that of all others regulating its transcription, enabling in principle the encoding of regulatory networks within an expanded grammatical model of gene regulation.	1998 Jun-Jul	Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Gutièrrez-Ríos, R M; Gutièrrez-Ríos, RM; Gutièrrez-Ríos; Bel-Enguix, G; Bel-Enguix, G; Bel-Enguix	Biosystems
9729766	Tricarboxylic acid cycle and anaplerotic enzymes in rhizobia.	Rhizobia are a diverse group of Gram-negative bacteria comprised of the genera Rhizobium, Bradyrhizobium, Mesorhizobium, Sinorhizobium and Azorhizobium. A unifying characteristic of the rhizobia is their capacity to reduce (fix) atmospheric nitrogen in symbiotic association with a compatible plant host. Symbiotic nitrogen fixation requires a substantial input of energy from the rhizobial symbiont. This review focuses on recent studies of rhizobial carbon metabolism which have demonstrated the importance of a functional tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle in allowing rhizobia to efficiently colonize the plant host and/or develop an effective nitrogen fixing symbiosis. Several anaplerotic pathways have also been shown to maintain TCA cycle activity under specific conditions. Biochemical and physiological characterization of carbon metabolic mutants, along with the analysis of cloned genes and their corresponding gene products, have greatly advanced our understanding of the function of enzymes such as citrate synthase, oxoglutarate dehydrogenase, pyruvate carboxylase and malic enzymes. However, much remains to be learned about the control and function of these and other key metabolic enzymes in rhizobia.	1998 Jun	Dunn, M F; Dunn, MF; Dunn	FEMS Microbiol Rev
9670816	From specific gene regulation to genomic networks: a global analysis of transcriptional regulation in Escherichia coli.	Because a large number of molecular mechanisms involved in gene regulation have been described during the last decades, it is now becoming possible to address questions about the global structure of gene regulatory networks, at least in the case of some of the best-characterized organisms. This paper presents a global characterization of the transcriptional regulation in Escherichia coli on the basis of the current data. The connectivity of the corresponding network was evaluated by analyzing the distribution of the number of genes regulated by a given regulatory protein, and the distribution of the number of regulatory genes regulating a given regulated gene. The mean connectivity found (between 2 and 3) shows a rather loosely interconnected structure. Special emphasis is given to circular sequences of interactions ("circuits") because of their critical dynamical properties. Only one-element circuits were found, in which negative autoregulation is the dominant architecture. These global properties are discussed in light of several pertinent theoretical approaches, as well as in terms of physiological and evolutionary considerations.	1998 May	Thieffry, D; Thieffry, D; Thieffry; Huerta, A M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Bioessays
9450332	NifA-dependent expression of glutamate dehydrogenase in Rhizobium etli modifies nitrogen partitioning during symbiosis.	Constitutive expression of foreign glutamate dehydrogenase in Rhizobium etli inhibits bean plant nodulation (A. Mendoza, A. Leija, E. Martínez-Romero, G. Hernández, and J. Mora. Mol. Plant-Microbe Interact. 8:584-592, 1995). Here we report that this inhibition is overcome when controlling gdhA expression by NifA, thus delaying the GDH activity onset after nodule establishment. Expression of gdhA modifies the nitrogen partitioning inside the bacteroid, where newly synthesized ammonia is preferentially incorporated into the amino acid pool instead of being exported to the infected cells. As a consequence, the fixed nitrogen transport to the leaves, measured as the ureides content in xylem sap, is significantly reduced. Nitrogenase activity, although not nifHDK expression, is significantly reduced in bacteroids expressing gdhA, probably due to the utilization of energy and reducing power for nitrogen assimilation. Here we show that ammonia assimilation inside R. etli bacteroids is active, albeit at low levels, and when enhanced is deleterious to the symbiotic performance. This leads us to believe that further reduction of the basal nitrogen metabolism in the bacteroid might stimulate the nitrogenase activity and increase the nitrogen supply to the plant.	1998 Feb	Mendoza, A; Mendoza, A; Mendoza; Valderrama, B; Valderrama, B; Valderrama; Leija, A; Leija, A; Leija; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
9466899	Genomic position analyses and the transcription machinery.	Position analyses have been devised to extract additional transcriptional information from rapidly expanding genomic data bases. The locations of promoter regulatory sites and also the locations of transcription factor DNA-binding domains are analyzed. Strongly preferred positions of activator binding sites occur in both Escherichia coli and eukaryotes, suggesting specific common features of transcription in the two systems. In both systems, regulatory proteins are found to have their DNA-binding domains near termini and the data suggest an evolutionary analysis that complements a phylogenetic analysis based on sequence alignments. The results indicate that positional information can be an important adjunct to sequence comparisons in analyzing genomic information.	1998 Jan	Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda; Gralla, J D; Gralla, JD; Gralla; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	J Mol Biol
9399800	RegulonDB: a database on transcriptional regulation in Escherichia coli.	RegulonDB is a DataBase that integrates biological knowledge of the mechanisms that regulate the transcription initiation in Escherichia coli , as well as knowledge on the organization of the genes and regulatory signals into operons in the chromosome. The operon is the basic structure used in RegulonDB to describe the elements and properties of transcriptional regulation. The current version contains information around some 500 regulation mechanisms, essentially for sigma 70 promoters.	1998 Jan	Huerta, A M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Salgado, H; Salgado, H; Salgado; Thieffry, D; Thieffry, D; Thieffry; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Nucleic Acids Res
9435112	Regulation of pyruvate carboxylase in Rhizobium etli.	Pyruvate carboxylase (PYC) is a biotin-dependent enzyme catalyzing the anaplerotic conversion of pyruvate to oxaloacetate in Rhizobium etli strain CE3. A pyc::Tn5 mutant had severely reduced growth, or failed to grow on sugars, three-carbon organic acids or glycerol, consistent with these substrates being metabolized via pyruvate. Transconjugants expressing a pyc::beta-glucuronidase gene fusion had slightly increased apparent pyc transcription during growth on pyruvate as compared to succinate, similar to the modest carbon source dependent changes in PYC activity reported previously. Biotin supplementation of cultures growing on pyruvate dramatically increased PYC activity but not apparent pyc transcription. Bacteroids isolated from bean nodules did not contain detectable PYC activity while apparent pyc transcription occurred at a moderate level.	1997 Dec	Dunn, M F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Araíza, G; Araíza, G; Araíza; Cevallos, M A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	FEMS Microbiol Lett
9421916	Functional redundancy of genes for sulphate activation enzymes in Rhizobium sp. BR816.	The broad-host-range, heat-tolerant Rhizobium strain BR816 produces sulphated Nod metabolites. Two ORFs highly homologous to the Sinorhizobium meliloti nodPQ genes were isolated and sequenced. It was found that Rhizobium sp. BR816 contained two copies of these genes; one copy was localized on the symbiotic plasmid, the other on the megaplasmid. Both nodP genes were interrupted by insertion of antibiotic resistance cassettes, thus constructing a double nodP1P2 mutant strain. However, no detectable differences in Nod factor TLC profile from this mutant were observed as compared to the wild-type strain. Additionally, plant inoculation experiments did not reveal differences between the mutant strain and the wild-type. It is proposed that a third, functionally homologous locus complements mutations in the Nod factor sulphation genes. Southern blot analysis suggested that this locus contains genes necessary for the sulphation of amino acids.	1997 Dec	Laeremans, T; Laeremans, T; Laeremans; Coolsaet, N; Coolsaet, N; Coolsaet; Verreth, C; Verreth, C; Verreth; Snoeck, C; Snoeck, C; Snoeck; Hellings, N; Hellings, N; Hellings; Vanderleyden, J; Vanderleyden, J; Vanderleyden; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Microbiology (Reading)
9442891	Gene amplification and genomic plasticity in prokaryotes.	Gene amplification is a common feature of the genome of prokaryotic organisms. In this review, we analyze different instances of gene amplification in a variety of prokaryotes, including their mechanisms of generation and biological role. Growing evidence supports the concept that gene amplification be considered not as a mutation but rather as a dynamic genomic state related to the adaptation of bacterial populations to changing environmental conditions or biological interactions. In this context, the potentially amplifiable DNA regions impose a defined dynamic structure on the genome. If such structure has indeed been selected during evolution, it is a particularly challenging hypothesis.	1997	Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios	Annu Rev Genet
9371431	Expression of thiamin biosynthetic genes (thiCOGE) and production of symbiotic terminal oxidase cbb3 in Rhizobium etli.	In this paper we report the cloning and sequence analysis of four genes, located on plasmid pb, which are involved in the synthesis of thiamin in Rhizobium etli (thiC, thiO, thiG, and thiE). Two precursors, 4-methyl-5-(beta-hydroxyethyl)thiazole monophosphate and 4-amino-5-hydroxymethylpyrimidine pyrophosphate, are coupled to form thiamin monophosphate, which is then phosphorylated to make thiamin pyrophosphate. The first open reading frame (ORF) product, of 610 residues, has significant homology (69% identity) with the product of thiC from Escherichia coli, which is involved in the synthesis of hydroxymethylpyrimidine. The second ORF product, of 327 residues, is the product of a novel gene denoted thiO. A protein motif involved in flavin adenine dinucleotide binding was found in the amino-terminal part of ThiO; also, residues involved in the catalytic site of D-amino acid oxidases are conserved in ThiO, suggesting that it catalyzes the oxidative deamination of some intermediate of thiamin biosynthesis. The third ORF product, of 323 residues, has significant homology (38% identity) with ThiG from E. coli, which is involved in the synthesis of the thiazole. The fourth ORF product, of 204 residues, has significant homology (47% identity) with the product of thiE from E. coli, which is involved in the condensation of hydroxymethylpyrimidine and thiazole. Strain CFN037 is an R. etli mutant induced by a single Tn5mob insertion in the promoter region of the thiCOGE gene cluster. The Tn5mob insertion in CFN037 occurred within a 39-bp region which is highly conserved in all of the thiC promoters analyzed and promotes constitutive expression of thiC. Primer extension analysis showed that thiC transcription in strain CFN037 originates within the Tn5 element. Analysis of c-type protein content and expression of the fixNOQP operon, which codes for the symbiotic terminal oxidase cbb3, revealed that CFN037 produces the cbb3 terminal oxidase. These data show a direct relationship between expression of thiC and production of the cbb3 terminal oxidase. This is consistent with the proposition that a purine-related metabolite, 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide ribonucleotide, is a negative effector of the production of the symbiotic terminal oxidase cbb3 in R. etli.	1997 Nov	Miranda-Ríos, J; Miranda-Ríos, J; Miranda-Ríos; Morera, C; Morera, C; Morera; Taboada, H; Taboada, H; Taboada; Dávalos, A; Dávalos, A; Dávalos; Encarnación, S; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora; Soberón, M; Soberón, M; Soberón	J Bacteriol
9336911	Biodiversity of bradyrhizobia nodulating Lupinus spp.	The genetic structure of Bradyrhizobium isolates recovered from three Lupinus species (Lupinus campestris, Lupinus montanus, and Lupinus exaltatus) grown in Mexico was examined. Among 41 Bradyrhizobium isolates, 18 electrophoretic types (ETs) were distinguished by multilocus enzyme electrophoresis of five metabolic enzymes. The mean genetic diversity, 0.64, indicated that there was great genetic diversity in the population sampled. Most isolates (63%) fell into two closely related clusters (clusters I and II) and were the types most frequently isolated from the root nodules of L. montanus and L. campestris. ET cluster III isolates were frequent nodule occupants of L. exaltatus. The isolates also were assigned to three main groups by using Curie point pyrolysis mass spectrometry. In general, the multilocus enzyme electrophoretic data and pyrolysis mass spectrometric data agreed. We determined the 16S rRNA sequences of representative Lupinus isolates and of Bradyrhizobium japonicum USDA 6T and found that the lupine isolates were highly related to the B. japonicum type strain, although not all B. japonicum type strains (subcultures maintained in different bacterial collections) had identical small-subunit rRNA.	1997 Oct	Barrera, L L; Barrera, LL; Barrera; Trujillo, M E; Trujillo, ME; Trujillo; Goodfellow, M; Goodfellow, M; Goodfellow; García, F J; García, FJ; García; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Dávila, G; Dávila, G; Dávila; van Berkum, P; van Berkum, P; van Berkum; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Int J Syst Bacteriol
9278503	The complete genome sequence of Escherichia coli K-12.	The 4,639,221-base pair sequence of Escherichia coli K-12 is presented. Of 4288 protein-coding genes annotated, 38 percent have no attributed function. Comparison with five other sequenced microbes reveals ubiquitous as well as narrowly distributed gene families; many families of similar genes within E. coli are also evident. The largest family of paralogous proteins contains 80 ABC transporters. The genome as a whole is strikingly organized with respect to the local direction of replication; guanines, oligonucleotides possibly related to replication and recombination, and most genes are so oriented. The genome also contains insertion sequence (IS) elements, phage remnants, and many other patches of unusual composition indicating genome plasticity through horizontal transfer.	1997 Sep	Blattner, F R; Blattner, FR; Blattner; Plunkett, G; Plunkett, G; Plunkett; Bloch, C A; Bloch, CA; Bloch; Perna, N T; Perna, NT; Perna; Burland, V; Burland, V; Burland; Riley, M; Riley, M; Riley; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Glasner, J D; Glasner, JD; Glasner; Rode, C K; Rode, CK; Rode; Mayhew, G F; Mayhew, GF; Mayhew; Gregor, J; Gregor, J; Gregor; Davis, N W; Davis, NW; Davis; Kirkpatrick, H A; Kirkpatrick, HA; Kirkpatrick; Goeden, M A; Goeden, MA; Goeden; Rose, D J; Rose, DJ; Rose; Mau, B; Mau, B; Mau; Shao, Y; Shao, Y; Shao	Science
9304861	Characterization of two plasmid-borne lps beta loci of Rhizobium etli required for lipopolysaccharide synthesis and for optimal interaction with plants.	In Rhizobium etli CFN42, both the symbiotic plasmid (pd) and plasmid b (pb) are required for effective bean nodulation. This is due to the presence on pb of a region (lps beta) involved in lipopolysaccharide (LPS) biosynthesis. We report here the genetic array and functional features of this plasmid-borne region. The sequence analysis of a 3,595-bp fragment revealed the presence of a transcriptional unit integrated by two open reading frames (lps beta 1 and lps beta 2) essential for LPS biosynthesis and symblosis. The lps beta 1 encodes a putative 193 amino acid polypeptide that shows strong homology with glucosyl-1P and galactosyl-1P transferases. The deduced amino acid sequence of the protein encoded by lps beta 2 was very similar to that of proteins involved in surface polysaccharide biosynthesis, such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa WpbM, Bordetella pertussis BpIL, and Yersinia enterocolitica TrsG. DNA sequences homologous to lps beta 1 and lps beta 2 of R. etli CFN42 were consistently found in functionally equivalent plasmids of R. etli, R. leguminosarum bv. viciae, and R. leguminosarum hv. trifolii strains, but not in R. meliloti, R. loti, R. tropici, R. fredii, Bradyrhizobium, Azorhizobium, and Agrobacterium tumefaciens. Even though Rhizobium and Agrobacterium do not share lps beta sequences, their presence is required for crown-gall tumor induction by R. etli transconjugants carrying the Ti plasmid.	1997 Sep	García-de los Santos, A; García-de los Santos, A; García-de los Santos; Brom, S; Brom, S; Brom	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
9293018	Coffea arabica L., a new host plant for Acetobacter diazotrophicus, and isolation of other nitrogen-fixing acetobacteria.	Acetobacter diazotrophicus was isolated from coffee plant tissues and from rhizosphere soils. Isolation frequencies ranged from 15 to 40% and were dependent on soil pH. Attempts to isolate this bacterial species from coffee fruit, from inside vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi spores, or from mealybugs (Planococcus citri) associated with coffee plants were not successful. Other acid-producing diazotrophic bacteria were recovered with frequencies of 20% from the coffee rhizosphere. These N2-fixing isolates had some features in common with the genus Acetobacter but should not be assigned to the species Acetobacter diazotrophicus because they differed from A. diazotrophicus in morphological and biochemical traits and were largely divergent in electrophoretic mobility patterns of metabolic enzymes at coefficients of genetic distance as high as 0.950. In addition, these N2-fixing acetobacteria differed in the small-subunit rRNA restriction fragment length polymorphism patterns obtained with EcoRI, and they exhibited very low DNA-DNA homology levels, ranging from 11 to 15% with the A. diazotrophicus reference strain PAI 5T. Thus, some of the diazotrophic acetobacteria recovered from the rhizosphere of coffee plants may be regarded as N2-fixing species of the genus Acetobacter other than A. diazotrophicus. Endophytic diazotrophic bacteria may be more prevalent than previously thought, and perhaps there are many more potentially beneficial N2-fixing bacteria which can be isolated from other agronomically important crops.	1997 Sep	Jimenez-Salgado, T; Jimenez-Salgado, T; Jimenez-Salgado; Fuentes-Ramirez, L E; Fuentes-Ramirez, LE; Fuentes-Ramirez; Tapia-Hernandez, A; Tapia-Hernandez, A; Tapia-Hernandez; Mascarua-Esparza, M A; Mascarua-Esparza, MA; Mascarua-Esparza; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado	Appl Environ Microbiol
9451455	Regulation of protein synthesis by minigene expression.	Peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase (Pth), an enzyme essential for Escherichia coli viability, scavenges peptidyl-tRNA released during abortive polypeptide chain elongation. Bacterial strains of E coli partially defective in Pth activity are unable to maintain bacteriophage lambda growth. Phage mutations that overcome the bacterial defect have been located to several regions in the lambda genome named bar. Plasmid constructs expressing just the bar region are toxic and cause a general arrest of protein synthesis in Pth-defective cells. Inspection of the nucleotide sequence from two bar regions reveals the short coding sequence AUG AUA Stop, spaced by an AT-rich segment from a Shine Dalgarno-like sequence (S-D). These sequences have been named minigenes. Base changes altering the putative S-D, the two sense codons, or the stop codon have been found to reduce Bar-toxicity. Transcripts containing bar function as mRNA. Upon expression in pth mutants, wild-type (bar+) transcripts are found associated with ribosomes. In addition, bar+ RNA forms ternary complexes with the 30S ribosomal subunit and the initiator tRNA and can be released upon run-off translation in the same way as an authentic mRNA. A cell free system for protein synthesis reproduces the in vivo effects: bar+ expression inhibits protein synthesis, bar+ RNA sequences are associated with ribosomes in the inhibited extracts, addition of purified Pth restores synthesis, and excess of tRNA(Lys), specific for the last sense codon in a mutant toxic minigene, prevents protein synthesis inhibition. Also, bar expression promotes association of methionine with ribosomes possibly in a translation complex. These results are consistent with a model proposing tRNA starvation to explain the behaviour of a pth mutant, thermosensitive for protein synthesis.	1997 Sep	Hernández, J; Hernández, J; Hernández; Ontiveros, C; Ontiveros, C; Ontiveros; Valadez, J G; Valadez, JG; Valadez; Buckingham, R H; Buckingham, RH; Buckingham; Guarneros, G; Guarneros, G; Guarneros	Biochimie
9274036	Sequence, localization and characteristics of the replicator region of the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium etli.	The replicator region of the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium etli CFN42 was cloned and sequenced. A plasmid derivative (pH3) harbouring a 5-6 kb HindIII fragment from the symbiotic plasmid was found to be capable of independent replication and eliminated the symbiotic plasmid when introduced into a R. etli CFNX101 strain (a recA derivative). The stability and the copy number of pH3 were the same as that of the symbiotic plasmid, indicating that the information required for stable replication and incompatibility resides in the 5.6 kb HindIII fragment. The sequence analysis of this fragment showed the presence of three ORFs similar in sequence analysis of this fragment showed the presence of three ORFs similar in sequence and organization to repA, repB and repC described for the replicator regions of the Agrobacterium plasmids pTiB653 and pRiA4b and for the R. leguminosarum cryptic plasmid pRL8JI. Hybridization studies showed that p42d-like replicator sequences are found in the symbiotic plasmids of other R. etli strains and in a 'cryptic' plasmid of R. tropici.	1997 Aug	Ramírez-Romero, Miguel A; Ramírez-Romero, MA; Ramírez-Romero; Bustos, Patricia; Bustos, P; Bustos; Girard, Lourdes; Girard, L; Girard; Rodríguez, Oscar; Rodríguez, O; Rodríguez; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila	Microbiology (Reading)
9226921	Phylogenetic and genetic relationships of Mesorhizobium tianshanense and related rhizobia.	The genetic and phylogenetic relationships for strains of Mesorhizobium tianshanense and its relatives were compared by an analysis of the results of sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) of whole-cell proteins, DNA-DNA hybridization, and full 16S rRNA gene sequencing. The strains of M. tianshanense formed a cluster which was distinct from those of other rhizobium species in the clustering analysis of SDS-PAGE. DNA-DNA relatedness between A-1BS (type strain of M. tianshanense) and the type or reference strains for Mesorhizobium loti, M. huakuii, M. ciceri, M. mediterraneum, and cluster U, an unnamed rhizobial group, ranged from 4.4 to 43.8%. The phylogenetic analysis based on the 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that M. tianshanense was closely related to the Mesorhizobium phylogenetic branch and could be distinguished from the other four species in this branch. These results further confirmed that these bacteria constitute a distinct rhizobial species.	1997 Jul	Tan, Z Y; Tan, ZY; Tan; Xu, X D; Xu, XD; Xu; Wang, E T; Wang, ET; Wang; Gao, J L; Gao, JL; Gao; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Chen, W X; Chen, WX; Chen	Int J Syst Bacteriol
9191062	Inhibition of Escherichia coli protein synthesis by abortive translation of phage lambda minigenes.	Escherichia coli mutants defective in peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase activity are unable to maintain bacteriophage lambda vegetative growth. Phage mutants, named bar, overcome the host limitation to support viral growth. Multicopy expression of lambda wild-type bar regions is deleterious to hydrolase-defective cells because it provokes arrest of protein synthesis. We noticed that the bar regions include minigenes whose transcripts would contain a Shine-Dalgarno-like sequence appropriately spaced for translation from a two codon open reading frame. To investigate the mechanism of bar inhibition, we asked if transcripts of the barI region function as mRNAs in their ribosomal interactions. We found that bar-containing RNA associates with ribosomes, forms ternary initiation complexes, yields a toeprint signal, and can be removed from ribosomes by run-off translation, as authentic mRNA. Since bar-containing RNA has the properties of a messenger, we propose that its translation leads to drop-off and accumulation of peptidyl-tRNA in pth-defective cells. Starvation of the tRNA(s) sequestered in pepidyl-tRNA(s) eventually causes inhibition of protein synthesis.	1997 Jun	Ontiveros, C; Ontiveros, C; Ontiveros; Valadez, J G; Valadez, JG; Valadez; Hernández, J; Hernández, J; Hernández; Guarneros, G; Guarneros, G; Guarneros	J Mol Biol
9202472	A Neurospora crassa mutant altered in the regulation of L-amino acid oxidase.	The isolation and characterization of a Neurospora crassa mutant altered in L-amino oxidase regulation is reported. The previously isolated gln-1bR8 strain, which only synthesizes the glutamine synthetase alpha monomer and lacks the beta monomer, was used as parental strain. A mutant derivative of strain was selected for its ability to grow on minimal medium in the presence of DL-methionine-SR-sulfoximine (MSO), an inhibitor of glutamine synthetase activity. This gln-1bR8;MSOR mutant overcame the inhibitory effect of MSO by increasing the activity of L-amino acid oxidase, an enzyme capable of degrading this compound. In contrast with the wild-type strain, the L-amino acid oxidase of the MSOR mutant was resistant to glutamine repression; in fact, it was induced by this amino acid but repressed by ammonium. This mutant is different from other nitrogen regulatory N. crassa mutants reported and is only altered in the regulation of L-amino acid oxidase. The MSOR mutation is epistatic to nit-2 since the nit2;MSOR double mutant regulated the L-amino acid oxidase in the same way as the MSOR single mutant.	1997 Jun	Calderón, Jorge; Calderón, J; Calderón; Olvera, Leticia; Olvera, L; Olvera; Martínez, Luz María; Martínez, LM; Martínez; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila	Microbiology (Reading)
9181580	Generation of Rhizobium strains with improved symbiotic properties by random DNA amplification (RDA)	To select for bacterial strains with enhanced phenotypes, random fragments of a whole genome, or a defined region of the genome, are cloned in a nonreplicating vector. The resulting plasmids are integrated by recombination into the homologous DNA region of the original strain. Integration gives rise to a nontandem direct duplication of the corresponding DNA region separated by the vector moiety of the plasmid. Recombination between the direct repeats leads to tandem duplication and further amplification of the entire integrated DNA, including the vector. Bacteria harboring the amplified DNA are selected by increasing the dosage of an antibiotic corresponding to a resistance marker of the integrated vector. Pooled strains carrying amplifications are then challenged with a selective pressure for the desired phenotype. After repeated selection cycles, the most fit strains are isolated. We used this process, which we called random DNA amplification, to select Rhizobium strains with increased competitiveness for nodule formation. Derivatives containing randomly amplified DNA regions of the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium tropici CFN299 strain were generated. Pools of amplified strains were inoculated onto various tropical legumes. After several cycles of selection through plants, amplified derivatives showing an increased competitiveness for nodule formation with the leguminous plant Macroptilium atropurpureum were obtained.	1997 Jun	Mavingui, P; Mavingui, P; Mavingui; Flores, M; Flores, M; Flores; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios	Nat Biotechnol
9113990	Bacterial nodulation protein NodZ is a chitin oligosaccharide fucosyltransferase which can also recognize related substrates of animal origin.	The nodZ gene, which is present in various soil bacteria such as Bradyrhizobium japonicum, Azorhizobium caulinodans, and Rhizobium loti, is involved in the addition of a fucosyl residue to the reducing N-acetylglucosamine residue of lipochitin oligosaccharide (LCO) signal molecules. Using an Escherichia coli strain that produces large quantities of the NodZ protein of B. japonicum, we have purified the NodZ protein to homogeneity. The purified NodZ protein appears to be active in an in vitro transfucosylation assay in which GDP-beta-fucose and LCOs or chitin oligosaccharides are used as substrates. The products of the in vitro reaction using chitin oligosaccharides as substrate were studied by using mass spectrometry, linkage analysis, and composition analysis. The data show that one fucose residue is added to C6 of the reducing-terminal N-acetylglucosamine residue. The substrate specificity of NodZ protein was analyzed in further detail, using radiolabeled GDP-beta-fucose as the donor. The results show that chitin oligosaccharides are much better substrates than LCOs, suggesting that in Rhizobium NodZ fucosylates chitin oligosaccharides prior to their acylation. The free glycan core pentasaccharides of N-linked glycoproteins are also substrates for NodZ. Therefore, the NodZ enzyme seems to have an activity equivalent to that of the enzyme involved in the addition of the C6-linked fucosyl substituent in the glycan core of N-linked glycoproteins in eukaryotes. Oligosaccharides that contain only one N-acetylglucosamine at the reducing terminus are also substrates for NodZ, although in this case very high concentrations of such oligosaccharides are needed. An example is the leukocyte antigen Lewis-X, which can be converted by NodZ to a novel fucosylated derivative that could be used for binding studies with E-selectin.	1997 Apr	Quinto, C; Quinto, C; Quinto; Wijfjes, A H; Wijfjes, AH; Wijfjes; Bloemberg, G V; Bloemberg, GV; Bloemberg; Blok-Tip, L; Blok-Tip, L; Blok-Tip; López-Lara, I M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Lugtenberg, B J; Lugtenberg, BJ; Lugtenberg; Thomas-Oates, J E; Thomas-Oates, JE; Thomas-Oates; Spaink, H P; Spaink, HP; Spaink	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
9284644	Contributions of the 'Rouge-Cloître group' to the notion of 'messenger RNA'.	Most biographical and historical works agree on a common scheme and a few 'founding papers' for the 'discovery' of mRNA. However, a closer scrutiny of these 'founding papers' leads to several unresolved questions with respect to the origin of the notion of mRNA. This paper focuses on the analysis of a set of contributions made by the group of the Rouge-Cloître in order to fill in some of the remaining gaps in the 'standard history'.	1997	Thieffry, D; Thieffry, D; Thieffry	Hist Philos Life Sci
9390313	Definite-clause grammars for the analysis of cis-regulatory regions in E. coli.	Based on an extensive collection of sigma 70 associated regulatory mechanisms, a grammatical model has been constructed that define the functional positions and combinations of sites within DNA regulatory regions. The syntactic rules and the dictionary implemented in a Prolog program were coupled to consensus matrices used as "sensors" to integrate a syntactic recognizer. A systematic comparison between the syntactic recognizer and the standard weight matrix methodology is presented using 12 regulatory proteins and the whole collection of about 130 sigma 70 DNA regulatory regions. On the average an increased sensitivity of 5 to 10 fold is obtained with this novel approach.	1997	Thieffry, D; Thieffry, D; Thieffry; Rosenblueth, D A; Rosenblueth, DA; Rosenblueth; Huerta, A M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Salgado, H; Salgado, H; Salgado; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Pac Symp Biocomput
8905154	Towards a unified grammatical model of sigma 70 and sigma 54 bacterial promoters.	The organization and integration of large amounts of information on the regulation of gene expression requires new conceptual frameworks to facilitate the discovery of general principles underlying different mechanisms of gene regulation. I have developed a formalism based on generative grammar to explicitly describe pertinent regulatory properties of mechanisms of regulation. The formal proof that justifies the use of generative grammar has been made. We have collected and analyzed an exhaustive database of sigma 70 and sigma 54 promoters in E coli and Salmonella where there is sufficient knowledge on the regulation of these genes. This collection has supported the construction of a grammatical model of the sigma 70 type of promoters. The purpose of this paper is to present some ideas towards the construction of a unified grammar capable of describing regulatory arrays for the sigma 70 and the sigma 54 bacterial promoters. This model is not intended to simply generate the set of binding sites of regulators distributed in a linear array in the DNA. It should also reflect the biological differences on the regulatory mechanisms of these collections, as understood from the analysis that we have done on these collections (Gralla and Collado-Vides, 1996). Based on the biology of these two types of bacterial promoters, a hypothesis is proposed stipulating that in principle it is feasible to activate sigma 70 promoters at a distance, an exclusive property of the sigma 54 class shared with promoters of higher organisms. The model presented assumes this hypothesis is correct. The ideas presented support the beginning of a unique 'universal' grammar for the sigma 70 and sigma 54 promoters. The specification of certain parameters would derive the respective specific sigma 70 and sigma 54 grammatical models.	1996	Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Biochimie
8996790	Syntactic recognition of regulatory regions in Escherichia coli.	One of the most common methodologies to identify cis-regulatory sites in regulatory regions in the DNA is that of weight matrices, as testified by several articles in this issue. An alternative to strengthen the computational predictions in regulatory regions is to develop methods that incorporate more biological properties present in such DNA regions. The grammatical implementation presented in this paper provides a concrete example in this direction.	1996 Oct	Rosenblueth, D A; Rosenblueth, DA; Rosenblueth; Thieffry, D; Thieffry, D; Thieffry; Huerta, A M; Huerta, AM; Huerta; Salgado, H; Salgado, H; Salgado; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Comput Appl Biosci
8830693	Pyruvate carboxylase from Rhizobium etli: mutant characterization, nucleotide sequence, and physiological role.	Pyruvate carboxylase (PYC), a biotin-dependent enzyme which catalyzes the conversion of pyruvate to oxaloacetate, was hypothesized to play an important anaplerotic role in the growth of Rhizobium etli during serial subcultivation in minimal media containing succinate (S. Encarnación, M. Dunn, K. Willms, and J. Mora, J. Bacteriol. 177:3058-3066, 1995). R. etli and R. tropici pyc::Tn5-mob mutants were selected for their inability to grow in minimal medium with pyruvate as a sole carbon source. During serial subcultivation in minimal medium containing 30 mM succinate, the R. etli parent and pyc mutant strains exhibited similar decreases in growth rate with each subculture. Supplementation of the medium with biotin prevented the growth decrease of the parent but not the mutant strain, indicating that PYC was necessary for the growth of R. etli under these conditions. The R. tropici pyc mutant grew normally in subcultures regardless of biotin supplementation. The symbiotic phenotypes of the pyc mutants from both species were similar to those of the parent strains. The R. etli pyc was cloned, sequenced, and found to encode a 126-kDa protein of 1,154 amino acids. The deduced amino acid sequence is highly homologous to other PYC sequences, and the catalytic domains involved in carboxylation, pyruvate binding, and biotinylation are conserved. The sequence and biochemical data show that the R. etli PYC is a member of the alpha4, homotetrameric, acetyl coenzyme A-activated class of PYCs.	1996 Oct	Dunn, M F; Dunn, MF; Dunn; Encarnación, S; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Araíza, G; Araíza, G; Araíza; Vargas, M C; Vargas, MC; Vargas; Dávalos, A; Dávalos, A; Dávalos; Peralta, H; Peralta, H; Peralta; Mora, Y; Mora, Y; Mora; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
8755625	Isolation and characterization of Rhizobium tropici Nod factor sulfation genes.	Rhizobium tropici produces a mixture of sulfated and non-sulfated Nod factors. The genes responsible for the sulfation process in R. tropici strain CFN299 were cloned and sequenced. These genes are homologous to the nodP, nodQ, and nodH genes from R. meliloti. The identity among the two species is 75% for nodP, 74% for nodQ, and 69% for nodH. NodH resembles sulfotransferases in general and NodQ has the characteristic purine-binding motifs and the PAPS 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulfate) motif. Mutants of NodP and NodH were obtained by site-directed mutagenesis. They are no longer able to synthesize the sulfated Nod factor, as was demonstrated in high-pressure liquid chromatography and thin-layer chromatography assays. The NodP- mutant had a decreased nodulation capacity in Phaseolus vulgaris Negro Xamapa bean plants. In contrast, NodH- and NodP- mutants acquired an increased capacity to nodulate the high-nitrogen-fixing bean cultivars N-8-116 and BAT-477. Nodulation was restored to normal levels when the mutants were complemented with a 16-kb clone carrying the wild-type genes. The role of the sulfate on Nod factors in R. tropici was dependent on the bean cultivar and the conditions assayed.	1996 Aug	Laeremans, T; Laeremans, T; Laeremans; Caluwaerts, I; Caluwaerts, I; Caluwaerts; Verreth, C; Verreth, C; Verreth; Rogel, M A; Rogel, MA; Rogel; Vanderleyden, J; Vanderleyden, J; Vanderleyden; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
8655489	Regulatory proteins and cis-acting elements involved in the transcriptional control of Rhizobium etli reiterated nifH genes.	In Rhizobium etli the nitrogenase reductase genes are reiterated. Strain CE3 has three copies; nifHa and nifHb form part of nifHDK operons with the nitrogenase structural genes, while nifHc is linked to a truncated nifD homolog. Their sequences are identical up to 6 residues upstream from a sigma54-dependent promoter. A remarkable difference among them is the absence of canonical NifA binding sites upstream of nifHc while a canonical binding site is located 200 bp upstream of nifHa and nifHb. To evaluate the transcriptional regulation of the reiterated nifH genes, we constructed fusions of nifHa and nifHc with the lacZ gene of Escherichia coli. Both genes were expressed at maximum levels under 1% oxygen in free-living cultures, and their expression declined as the oxygen concentration was increased. This expression was dependent on the integrity of nifA, and nifHc was expressed at higher levels than nifHa. The same pattern was observed with root nodule bacteroids. Expression of both genes in E. coli required sigma54 in addition to NifA bound to the upstream activator sequence. In vivo dimethyl sulfate footprinting analyses showed that NifA binds to the canonical site upstream of nifHa and to a TGT half-site 6 nucleotides further upstream. NifA protected an imperfect binding site upstream of nijHc at position 85 from the promoter. The integration host factor stimulated each gene differently, nifHa being more dependent on this protein. The above results correlate the asymmetric arrangement of cis-acting elements with a differential expression of the reiterated nifH genes, both in culture and during symbiosis with bean plants.	1996 Jun	Valderrama, B; Valderrama, B; Valderrama; Dávalos, A; Dávalos, A; Dávalos; Girard, L; Girard, L; Girard; Morett, E; Morett, E; Morett; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
24178452	Establishment of transformed root cultures of Perezia cuernavacana producing the sesquiterpene quinone perezone.	The sesquiterpene quinone currently known as perezone is abundantly produced by the roots of Perezia cuernavacana. This compound is of biotechnological interest since it may be used as a pigment and has several pharmacological properties. In this work we demonstrate that perezone is also produced in transformed root cultures of P. cuernavacana. Hairy roots were induced by inoculation of internodal segments of sterile plants of P. cuernavacana with Agrobacterium rhizogenes AR12 strain. The axenic liquid MS medium cultures of the hairy roots isolated from the internodes showed active growth in the absence of growth regulators. The transformed nature of the tissue was confirmed by genomic integration (PCR and slot blot hybridization) and expression (enzyme activity) of the marker gus-gene. The production of perezone by a transformed root culture was evidenced by IR spectroscopy. Our results offer an alternative for enhanced production of perezone and represent an advantage over its extraction from natural plant populations which present problems in their agronomic culture. 	1996 Mar	Arellano, J; Arellano, J; Arellano; Vázquez, F; Vázquez, F; Vázquez; Villegas, T; Villegas, T; Villegas; Hernández, G; Hernández, G; Hernández	Plant Cell Rep
8626293	Genetic and physiological characterization of a Rhizobium etli mutant strain unable to synthesize poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate.	Rhizobium etli accumulates poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate (PHB) in symbiosis and in free life. PHB is a reserve material that serves as a carbon and/or electron sink when optimal growth conditions are not met. It has been suggested that in symbiosis PHB can prolong nitrogen fixation until the last stages of seed development, but experiments to test this proposition have not been done until now. To address these questions in a direct way, we constructed an R. etli PHB-negative mutant by the insertion of an Omega-Km interposon within the PHB synthase structural gene (phaC). The identification and sequence of the R. etli phaC gene are also reported here. Physiological studies showed that the PHB-negative mutant strain was unable to synthesize PHB and excreted more lactate, acetate, pyruvate, beta-hydroxybutyrate, fumarate, and malate than the wild-type strain. The NAD+/NADH ratio in the mutant strain was lower than that in the parent strain. The oxidative capacity of the PHB-negative mutant was reduced. Accordingly, the ability to grow in minimal medium supplemented with glucose or pyruvate was severely diminished in the mutant strain. We propose that in free life PHB synthesis sequesters reductive power, allowing the tricarboxylic acid cycle to proceed under conditions in which oxygen is a limiting factor. In symbiosis with Phaseolus vulgaris, the PHB-negative mutant induced nodules that prolonged the capacity to fix nitrogen.	1996 Mar	Cevallos, M A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Encarnación, S; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Leija, A; Leija, A; Leija; Mora, Y; Mora, Y; Mora; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
24415159	Rhizobium plasmids in bacteria-legume interactions.	The functional analysis of plasmids in Rhizobium strains has concentrated mainly on the symbiotic plasmid (pSym). However, genetic information relevant to both symbiotic and saprophytic Rhizobium life cycles, localized on other 'cryptic' replicons, has also been reported. Information is reviewed which concerns functional features encoded in plasmids other than the pSym: biosynthesis of cell surface polysaccharides, metabolic processes, the utilization of plant exudates, aromatic compounds and diverse sugars, and features involved symbiotic performance. In addition, factors which affect plasmid evolution through their influence on structural features of the plasmids, such as conjugative transfer and genomic rearrangements, is discussed. Based on the overall data, we propose that together the plasmids and the chromosome constitute a fully integrated genomic complex, entailing structural features as well as saprophytic and cellular functions. 	1996 Mar	García-de Los Santos, A; García-de Los Santos, A; García-de Los Santos; Brom, S; Brom, S; Brom; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero	World J Microbiol Biotechnol
8635758	Microbial genes homologous to the peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase-encoding gene of Escherichia coli.	We have cloned and determined the nucleotide (nt) sequences of the genes encoding peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase (Pth) homologues of Salmonella typhi (St) and the Lyme disease spirochaete, Borrelia burgdorferi (Bb). We also completed the nt sequence of a pth homologous gene contained in a Chlamydia trachomatis (Ct) clone identified in the databanks. The open reading frames (ORFs) of the Pth homologues encode putative polypeptides of 194 (St), 188 (Bb) and 194 (Ct) amino acids exhibiting significant identity with Escherichia coli (Ec) Pth. Together with the products of two previously unidentified ORFs from Bacillus subtilis and Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and the recently recognized Haemophilus influenzae and Mycoplasma genitalium pth genes, these seven putative polypeptides and the Ec Pth form a group of homologous basic proteins spanning eubacteria and eukaryota which can be defined by at least three conserved regions. Previously known Ec pth mutations were located in highly conserved residues.	1996 Feb	De La Vega, F M; De La Vega, FM; De La Vega; Galindo, J M; Galindo, JM; Galindo; Old, I G; Old, IG; Old; Guarneros, G; Guarneros, G; Guarneros	Gene
9122371	Escherichia coli as a model system with which to study cell differentiation.	This article concerns the elaboration of epigenetic models for differentiation. I discuss how results and conclusions arising from studies of prokaryotes were extrapolated to explain differentiation during metazoan development. In this respect, I focus on the presentation of a multi-stable biochemical model by Delbrück in 1949, and on a series of works dealing with enzyme adaptation in Escherichia coli that culminated in Jacob and Monod's operon model. These influential contributions are discussed in the context of debates on nuclear versus cytoplasmic heredity, on the regulation of gene expression, as well as on the mechanisms at the basis of cell differentiation.	1996	Thieffry, D; Thieffry, D; Thieffry	Hist Philos Life Sci
8534846	Induction of nodule primordia on Phaseolus and Acacia by lipo-chitin oligosaccharide nodulation signals from broad-host-range Rhizobium strain GRH2.	Rhizobium wild-type strain GRH2 was originally isolated from the tree, Acacia cyanophylla, and has a broad host-range which includes herbaceous legumes, such as Phaseolus and Trifolium species. Here we show that strains of Rhizobium sp. GRH2, into which heterologous nodD alleles have been introduced, produce a large diversity of both sulphated and non-sulphated lipo-chitin oligosaccharides (LCOs). Most of the molecular species contain an N-methyl group on the reducing-terminal N-acetyl-glucosamine. The LCOs vary in the nature of the fatty acyl chain and in the length of the chitin backbone. The majority of the LCOs have an oligosaccharide chain length of five GlcNAc residues, but a few are oligomers having six GlcNAc units. LCOs purified from GRH2 are able to induce root hair formation and deformation on Acacia cyanophylla and A. melanoxylon plants. We show that an N-vaccenoyl-chitopentaose bearing an N-methyl group is able to induce nodule primordia on Phaseolus vulgaris, A. cyanophylla, and A. melanoxylon, indicating that for these plants an N-methyl modification is sufficient for nodule primordia induction.	1995 Nov	López-Lara, I M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; van der Drift, K M; van der Drift, KM; van der Drift; van Brussel, A A; van Brussel, AA; van Brussel; Haverkamp, J; Haverkamp, J; Haverkamp; Lugtenberg, B J; Lugtenberg, BJ; Lugtenberg; Thomas-Oates, J E; Thomas-Oates, JE; Thomas-Oates; Spaink, H P; Spaink, HP; Spaink	Plant Mol Biol
8534845	Isolation, chemical structures and biological activity of the lipo-chitin oligosaccharide nodulation signals from Rhizobium etli.	Rhizobium etli is a microsymbiont of plants of the genus Phaseolus. Using mass spectrometry we have identified the lipo-chitin oligosaccharides (LCOs) that are produced by R. etli strain CE3. They are N-acetylglucosamine pentasaccharides of which the non-reducing residue is N-methylated and N-acylated with cis-vaccenic acid (C18:1) or stearic acid (C18:0) and carries a carbamoyl group at C4. The reducing residue is substituted at the C6 position with O-acetylfucose. Analysis of their biological activity on the host plant Phaseolus vulgaris shows that these LCOs can elicit the formation of nodule primordia which develop to the stage where vascular bundles are formed. The formation of complete nodule structures, including an organized vascular tissue, is never observed. Considering the very close resemblance of the R. etli LCO structures to those of R. loti (I. M. López-Lara, J. D. J. van den Berg, J. E. Thomas Oates, J. Glushka, B. J. J. Lugtenberg, H. P. Spaink, Mol Microbiol 15: 627-638, 1995) we tested the ability of R. etli strains to nodulate various Lotus species and of R. loti to nodulate P. vulgaris. The results show that R. etli is indeed able to nodulate Lotus plants. However, several Lotus species are only nodulated when an additional flavonoid independent transcription activator (FITA) nodD gene is provided. Phaseolus plants can also be nodulated by R. loti bacteria, but only when the bacteria contain a FITA nodD gene. Apparently, the type of nod gene inducers secreted by the plants is the major basis for the separation of Phaseolus and Lotus into different cross inoculation groups.	1995 Nov	Cárdenas, L; Cárdenas, L; Cárdenas; Domínguez, J; Domínguez, J; Domínguez; Quinto, C; Quinto, C; Quinto; López-Lara, I M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Lugtenberg, B J; Lugtenberg, BJ; Lugtenberg; Spaink, H P; Spaink, HP; Spaink; Rademaker, G J; Rademaker, GJ; Rademaker; Haverkamp, J; Haverkamp, J; Haverkamp; Thomas-Oates, J E; Thomas-Oates, JE; Thomas-Oates	Plant Mol Biol
8526514	Rhizobium tropici chromosomal citrate synthase gene.	Two genes encoding citrate synthase, a key enzyme in the Krebs cycle, have been found in Rhizobium tropici. One of them is in the bacterial chromosome, while the other is in the symbiotic plasmid. We sequenced the chromosomal gene and found that it is very similar to the previously reported plasmidic gene sequence in its structural region but not in its regulatory region. The chromosomal gene is able to complement an Escherichia coli citrate synthase mutant. In R. tropici, a mutant in the chromosomal citrate synthase gene has a diminished citrate synthase activity (in free-living bacteria), a diminished nodulation capacity, and forms nitrogen-fixing nodules. In contrast, the citrate synthase double mutant forms ineffective nodules devoid of bacteroids and forms less nodules than the single chromosomal mutant. It is inferred that both genes are functional and required during the nodulation process in R. tropici.	1995 Nov	Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Pardo, M A; Pardo, MA; Pardo; Segovia, L; Segovia, L; Segovia; Miranda, J; Miranda, J; Miranda; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Appl Environ Microbiol
16535102	Genetic Structure of Acetobacter diazotrophicus Populations and Identification of a New Genetically Distant Group.	A total of 55 isolates of Acetobacter diazotrophicus recovered from diverse sucrose-rich host plants and from mealybugs associated with sugarcane plants were characterized by the electrophoretic mobilities of 12 metabolic enzymes. We identified seven different electrophoretic types (ETs), six of which are closely related within a genetic distance of 0.195 and exhibit high DNA-DNA homology. The seventh ET was largely divergent, separated at a genetic distance of 0.53, and had only 54% DNA homology to the reference strain. Strains corresponding to ET 7 could represent a distinct nitrogen-fixing species of the genus Acetobacter. More genetic diversity was found in isolates from Brazil than in those from Mexico, probably due to the very different crop nitrogen fertilization levels used.	1995 Aug	Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Fuentes-Ramirez, L E; Fuentes-Ramirez, LE; Fuentes-Ramirez; Reis, V M; Reis, VM; Reis; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero	Appl Environ Microbiol
7635216	Rhizobium tropici nodulation factor sulfation is limited by the quantity of activated form of sulfate.	Rhizobium tropici is a broad host-range symbiont of Phaseolus vulgaris. This bacterium produces a mixture of sulfated and non-sulfated N-methylated pentameric nodulation (Nod) factors. To understand the genetic bases of the partial sulfation of R. tropici Nod factors, which might be involved in the broad host-range of this species, we introduced in R. tropici CFN299 the recombinant plasmid pGMI515 carrying a set of nodulation (nod) genes of R. meliloti, including those involved in the sulfation of R. meliloti Nod factors. The CFN299 (pGMI515) transconjugant produced only sulfated Nod factors, but approximately half of them were no more N-methylated. Mutations in R. meliloti nodH gene did not decrease the Nod factor sulfation whereas inactivation of the nodPQ genes restored the production of a mixture of sulfated and non-sulfated molecules. These results suggest that the limiting step in R. tropici Nod factor sulfation is the production of activated sulfate donors. Mutations in the R. meliloti nodFEG and nodH genes did not change the N-methylation pattern, whereas mutations in nodPQ increased the degree of N-methylation, suggesting a metabolic link between sulfation and methylation of R. tropici Nod factors.	1995 Jul	Poupot, R; Poupot, R; Poupot; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Maillet, F; Maillet, F; Maillet; Prome, J C; Prome, JC; Prome	FEBS Lett
7618891	Phylogenetic relationships and host range of Rhizobium spp. that nodulate Phaseolus vulgaris L.	We determined the nucleotide sequences of 16S rRNA gene segments from five Rhizobium strains that have been isolated from tropical legume species. All share the capacity to nodulate Phaseolus vulgaris L., the common bean. Phylogenetic analysis confirmed that these strains are of two different chromosomal lineages. We defined the host ranges of two strains of Rhizobium etli and three strains of R. tropici, comparing them with those of the two most divergently related new strains. Twenty-two of the 43 tested legume species were nodulated by three or more of these strains. All seven strains have broad host ranges that include woody species such as Albizia lebbeck, Gliricidia maculata, and Leucaena leucocephala.	1995 Jul	Hernandez-Lucas, I; Hernandez-Lucas, I; Hernandez-Lucas; Segovia, L; Segovia, L; Segovia; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Pueppke, S G; Pueppke, SG; Pueppke	Appl Environ Microbiol
24194309	Root exuded nod-gene inducing signals limit the nodulation capacity of different alfalfa varieties with Rhizobium meliloti.	Different nodulation capacities were found among nine different varieties of alfalfa, cultivated in the Central region of Mexico, by Rhizobium meliloti 2011. A correlation between nodulation capacity and foliar dry weight was observed, which points to a genotype dependance on these parameters. A correlation between the nodulation capacity and the R. meliloti nod-gene inducing activity of the root exudates from the different varieties, as measured by β-galactosidase induction in a test system consisting of a R. meliloti nodC-lacZ strain incubated with each root exudate, was established. When the root exudate from the best nodulating variety was added to the four poorest nodulating varieties, an increase in nodule formation was observed. We conclude that root exuded nod-gene inducing signals are a symbiotically-limiting component in natural populations of the poorest nodulating varieties of alfalfa. 	1995 Jul	Hernández, G; Hernández, G; Hernández; Ramírez, M; Ramírez, M; Ramírez; Suárez, R; Suárez, R; Suárez; Fuentes, S I; Fuentes, SI; Fuentes	Plant Cell Rep
8589413	The enhancement of ammonium assimilation in Rhizobium etli prevents nodulation of Phaseolus vulgaris.	The modification of the ammonium assimilation pathway of Rhizobium etli (GS-GOGAT) by adding an additional ammonium assimilation enzyme, GDH, strongly affects its symbiotic interaction with beans. The plasmid pAM1a, based in the stable vector pTR101 (M. Weinstein, R. C. Roberts, and D. R. Helsinki, J. Bacteriol. 174,7486-7489, 1992), containing the Escherichia coli gdhA gene flanked by two transcription-translation terminators was constructed. The expression of GDH in both, the wild type (CFN42/pAM1a) and a ntrC- mutant (CFN2012/pAM1a) R. etli strains, gave a similar metabolic effect, i.e., high GDH and reduced GOGAT activities, and an increased synthesis and excretion of several amino acids. The total inhibition of bean nodulation was observed when the minimum optimal inoculum of R. etli CFN42/pAM1a was used; however, an effective symbiosis occurred with the CFN2012/pAM1a mutant strain. While a total inhibition of the induction of the nodA gene by bean root exudate or by naringenin was observed in the CFN42/pAM1a strain, at 10 mM ammonium, the CFN2012/pAM1a showed an optimal nodA gene induction. A correlation between nodA gene induction, Nod factor production, and nodulation was observed. We conclude that in R. etli, there is a down-regulation of nod gene expression and nodulation when a high internal nitrogen content is built up by the presence of a functional GDH and that NtrC is involved in such regulation. An instability of the plasmid harboring the gdhA gene was observed during symbiosis, indicating a strong selection against cells containing this plasmid.	1995 Jul-Aug	Mendoza, A; Mendoza, A; Mendoza; Leija, A; Leija, A; Leija; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Hernández, G; Hernández, G; Hernández; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
7768801	Fermentative and aerobic metabolism in Rhizobium etli.	Strains of Rhizobium etli, Rhizobium meliloti, and Rhizobium tropici decreased their capacity to grow after successive subcultures in minimal medium, with a pattern characteristic for each species. During the growth of R. etli CE 3 in minimal medium (MM), a fermentation-like response was apparent: the O2 content was reduced and, simultaneously, organic acids and amino acids were excreted and poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate (PHB) was accumulated. Some of the organic acids excreted into the medium were tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle intermediates, and, concomitantly, the activities of several TCA cycle and auxiliary enzymes decreased substantially or became undetectable. Optimal and sustained growth and a low PHB content were found in R. etli CE 3 when it was grown in MM inoculated at a low cell density with O2 maintained at 20% or with the addition of supplements that have an effect on the supply of substrates for the TCA cycle. In the presence of supplements such as biotin or thiamine, no amino acids were excreted and the organic acids already excreted into the medium were later reutilized. Levels of enzyme activities in cells from supplemented cultures indicated that carbon flux through the TCA cycle was maintained, which did not happen in MM. It is proposed that the fermentative state in Rhizobium species is triggered by a cell density signal that results in the regulation of some of the enzymes responsible for the flux of carbon through the TCA cycle and that this in turn determines how much carbon is available for the synthesis and accumulation of PHB. The fermentative state of free-living Rhizobium species may be closely related to the metabolism that these bacteria express during symbiosis.	1995 Jun	Encarnación, S; Encarnación, S; Encarnación; Dunn, M; Dunn, M; Dunn; Willms, K; Willms, K; Willms; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
16535054	Host-Controlled Restriction of Nodulation by Bradyrhizobium japonicum Strains in Serogroup 110.	We previously reported the identification of a soybean plant introduction (PI) genotype, PI 417566, which restricts nodulation by Bradyrhizobium japonicum MN1-1c (USDA 430), strains in serogroup 129, and USDA 110 (P. B. Cregan, H. H. Keyser, and M. J. Sadowsky, Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 55:2532-2536, 1989, and Crop Sci. 29:307-312, 1989). In this study, we further characterized nodulation restriction by PI 417566. Twenty-four serogroup 110 isolates were tested for restricted nodulation on PI 417566. Of the 24 strains examined, 62.5% were restricted in nodulation by the PI genotype. The remainder of the serogroup 110 strains tested (37.5%), however, formed significant numbers of nodules on PI 417566, suggesting that host-controlled restriction of nodulation by members of serogroup 110 is strain dependent. Analysis of allelic variation at seven enzyme-encoding loci by multilocus enzyme electrophoresis indicated that the serogroup 110 isolates can be divided into two major groups. The majority of serogroup 110 isolates which nodulated PI 417566 belonged to the same multilocus enzyme electrophoresis group. B. japonicum USDA 110 and USDA 123 were used as coinoculants in competition-for-nodulation studies using PI 417566. Over 98% of the nodules formed on PI 417566 contained USDA 123, whereas less than 2% contained USDA 110. We also report the isolation of a Tn5 mutant of USDA 110 which has overcome nodulation restriction conditioned by PI 417566. This mutant, D4.2-5, contained a single Tn5 insertion and nodulated PI 417566 to an extent equal to that seen with the unrestricted strain USDA 123. The host range of D4.2-5 on soybean plants and other legumes was unchanged relative to that of USDA 110, except that the mutant nodulated Glycine max cv. Hill more efficiently. While strain USDA 110 has the ability to block nodulation by D4.2-5 on PI 417566, the nodulation-blocking phenomenon was not seen unless strain USDA 110 was inoculated at a 100-fold greater concentration than the mutant strain.	1995 Jun	Lohrke, S M; Lohrke, SM; Lohrke; Orf, J H; Orf, JH; Orf; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Sadowsky, M J; Sadowsky, MJ; Sadowsky	Appl Environ Microbiol
7786037	Redox imbalance at the start of each morphogenetic step of Neurospora crassa conidiation.	The conidiation process of Neurospora crassa is characterized by three morphogenetic steps: hyphal adhesion, aerial hyphal formation, and production of conidia. Total protein oxidation and specific enzyme oxidation coincided with an increased oxygen-dependent chemiluminescence and indicated the occurrence of a hyperoxidant state at the onset of all three morphogenetic steps. Oxidation of NAD(P)H and excretion of glutathione disulfide was detected at the start of hyphae adhesion. Here we show that NAD(P)H and glutathione redox imbalance also occurred at the beginning of aerial hyphal growth and just before formation of conidia in the isolated cell structures. An increased loss and oxidation of NAD(P)(H) and glutathione were detected with each morphogenetic transition. These results give further support to our proposal that a hyperoxidant state develops at the start of each of the three morphogenetic processes during N. crassa conidiation.	1995 Jun	Toledo, I; Toledo, I; Toledo; Rangel, P; Rangel, P; Rangel; Hansberg, W; Hansberg, W; Hansberg	Arch Biochem Biophys
7896698	Overlapping promoters for two different RNA polymerase holoenzymes control Bradyrhizobium japonicum nifA expression.	The Bradyrhizobium japonicum NifA protein, the central regulator for nitrogen fixation gene expression, is encoded in the fixRnifA operon. This operon is activated during free-living anaerobic growth and in the symbiotic root nodule bacteroid state. In addition, it is expressed in aerobic conditions, albeit at a low level. Here, we report that this pattern of expression is due to the presence of two overlapping promoters: fixRp1, which is of the -24/-12 class recognized by the RNA polymerase sigma 54, and fixRp2, which shares homology with the -35 and -10 regions found in other putative B. japonicum housekeeping promoters. Primer extension analyses showed that fixRp1 directed the synthesis of a transcript, P1, that starts 12 nucleotides downstream of the -12 region. In addition to sigma 54, P1 was dependent on NifA and low oxygen tension. Transcripts originating from fixRp2 started at two sites: one coincided with P1, while the most abundant, P2 initiated just two nucleotides further downstream of P1. Expression from fixRp2 was dependent on the upstream -68 promoter region, a region known to bind a putative activator protein, but it was independent of sigma 54 and NifA. This promoter was expressed in aerobic and anaerobic conditions but was not expressed in 30-day-old bacteroids. Mutations in the conserved 12 region for the sigma 54 promoter did not show any transcript, because these mutations also disrupted the overlapping -10 region of the fixRp2 promoter. Conversely, mutations at the -24 region only affected the sigma 54-dependent P1 transcript, having no effect on the expression of P2. In the absence of omega(54), anaerobic expression from the fixRp(2) promoter was enhanced threefold, suggesting that in the wild-type strain, the two RNA polymerase holoenzymes must compete for binding to the same promoter region.	1995 Apr	Barrios, H; Barrios, H; Barrios; Fischer, H M; Fischer, HM; Fischer; Hennecke, H; Hennecke, H; Hennecke; Morett, E; Morett, E; Morett	J Bacteriol
7890737	Wild type Rhizobium etli, a bean symbiont, produces acetyl-fucosylated, N-methylated, and carbamoylated nodulation factors.	Phaseolus vulgaris (common bean) can be nodulated by different Rhizobium species. A new species has been recently proposed: Rhizobium etli. Following transcriptional activation of the bacterial nodulation genes using naringenin or bean seed exudate, we have isolated, purified, and characterized R. etli extracellular nodulation factors. They are chitopentameric compounds that are N-methyl-N-vaccenoylated at their non-reducing end. At position 6 of the reducing N-acetyl-D-glucosamine, they are 4-O-acetyl-L-fucosylated. Minor compounds bear a carbamate group on the terminal non-reducing saccharidic residue.	1995 Mar	Poupot, R; Poupot, R; Poupot; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Gautier, N; Gautier, N; Gautier; Promé, J C; Promé, JC; Promé	J Biol Chem
7711895	Surface polysaccharide mutants of Rhizobium sp. (Acacia) strain GRH2: major requirement of lipopolysaccharide for successful invasion of Acacia nodules and host range determination.	Two transposon Tn5-induced mutants of wild-type broad-host-range Rhizobium sp. GRH2 were isolated and found to harbour different alterations in surface polysaccharides. These mutants, designated GRH2-14 and GRH2-50, induced a few, empty nodules on Acacia and lost the ability to nodulate most host herbaceous legumes. Whereas mutant GRH2-14 produces an acidic exopolysaccharide (EPS) similar to the wild-type, the acidic EPS of mutant GRH2-50 lacks galactose and the pyruvyl and 3-hydroxybutyryl substituents attached to this sugar moiety. In addition, both mutants GRH2-50 and GRH2-14 were altered in smooth lipopolysaccharides (LPS). DNA sequence analyses of the corresponding Tn5 insertions revealed that strain GRH2-50 was mutated in a DNA locus homologous to galE, and in vitro enzyme assays indicated that the UDPglucose 4-epimerase (GalE) activity was missing in this mutant strain. DNA hybridization studies showed that the GRH2-50 mutant DNA has homologous sequences within the different biovars of Rhizobium leguminosarum. However, no DNA homology to GRH2-14 altered DNA was found in those rhizobial strains, indicating that it represents a new chromosomal lps locus in Rhizobium sp. (Acacia) involved in symbiotic development.	1995 Mar	López-Lara, I M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Orgambide, G; Orgambide, G; Orgambide; Dazzo, F B; Dazzo, FB; Dazzo; Olivares, J; Olivares, J; Olivares; Toro, N; Toro, N; Toro	Microbiology (Reading)
7860608	Discrete amplifiable regions (amplicons) in the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium etli CFN42.	Frequent tandem amplification of defined regions of the genome, called amplicons, is a common characteristic in the genomes of some Rhizobium species, such as Rhizobium etli. In order to map these zones in a model Rhizobium replicon, we undertook an analysis of the plasticity patterns fostered by amplicons in the pSym (390 kb) of R. etli CFN42. Data presented in this article indicate the presence of four amplicons in pSym, used for the generation of tandem amplifications and deletions. The amplicons are large, ranging from 90 to 175 kb, and they are overlapping. Each amplicon is usually flanked by specific reiterated sequences. Formation of amplifications and deletions requires an active recA gene. All the amplicons detected are concentrated in a zone of roughly one-third of pSym, covering most of the symbiotic genes detected in this plasmid. No amplicons were detected in the remaining two-thirds of pSym. These data support the idea that most of the known symbiotic genes in this plasmid are located in a genomic region that is prone to the formation of frequent tandem amplification.	1995 Feb	Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Martínez-Salazar, J; Martínez-Salazar, J; Martínez-Salazar; Girard, L; Girard, L; Girard; Brom, S; Brom, S; Brom; Dávilla, G; Dávilla, G; Dávilla; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios; Flores, M; Flores, M; Flores; Rodríguez, C; Rodríguez, C; Rodríguez	J Bacteriol
7783635	Structural identification of the lipo-chitin oligosaccharide nodulation signals of Rhizobium loti.	Rhizobium loti is a fast-growing Rhizobium species that has been described as a microsymbiont of plants of the genus Lotus. Nodulation studies show that Lotus plants are nodulated by R. loti, but not by most other Rhizobium strains, indicating that R. loti produces specific lipo-chitin oligosaccharides (LCOs) which are necessary for the nodulation of Lotus plants. The LCOs produced by five different Rhizobium loti strains have been purified and were shown to be N-acetylglucosamine pentasaccharides of which the non-reducing residue is N-methylated and N-acylated with cis-vaccenic acid (C18:1) or stearic acid (C18:O) and carries a carbamoyl group. In one R. loti strain, NZP2037, an additional carbamoyl group is present on the non-reducing terminal residue. The major class of LCO molecules is substituted on the reducing terminal residue with 4-O-acetylfucose. Addition of LCOs to the roots of Lotus plants results in abundant distortion, swelling and branching of the root hairs, whereas spot inoculation leads to the formation of nodule primordia.	1995 Feb	López-Lara, I M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; van den Berg, J D; van den Berg, JD; van den Berg; Thomas-Oates, J E; Thomas-Oates, JE; Thomas-Oates; Glushka, J; Glushka, J; Glushka; Lugtenberg, B J; Lugtenberg, BJ; Lugtenberg; Spaink, H P; Spaink, HP; Spaink	Mol Microbiol
7952190	Enzyme inactivation related to a hyperoxidant state during conidiation of Neurospora crassa.	The conidiation process of Neurospora crassa is characterized by three morphogenetic steps: hyphal adhesion, aerial hyphal formation, and production of conidia. Previous data indicated the occurrence of a hyperoxidant state at the onset of all three morphogenetic steps. Because glutamine synthetase (GS) and the biosynthetic glutamate dehydrogenase [GDH(NADP)] enzymes are susceptible to inactivation by reactive oxygen species, we followed these enzyme activities during conidiation and under different physiological conditions and related them to the hyperoxidant states and morphogenesis. Loss of GS activity occurred prior to all three morphogenetic steps, coinciding with an increase in total protein oxidation. Oxidized GS polypeptides were detected during hyphal adhesion. Loss of GDH(NADP) activity also occurred during hyphal adhesion and before aerial hyphal formation; the enzyme polypeptide and activity decreased in the adhered hyphae to low values and no GDH(NADP) was detected in aerial hyphae. The catabolic GDH [GDH(NAD)] behaved in an opposite manner, increasing its activity during hyphal adhesion and aerial hyphae development. These results are discussed with regard to cell differentiation and the conidiation process in N. crassa.	1994 Sep	Toledo, I; Toledo, I; Toledo; Aguirre, J; Aguirre, J; Aguirre; Hansberg, W; Hansberg, W; Hansberg	Microbiology (Reading)
16349319	Carbon Metabolism Enzymes of Rhizobium tropici Cultures and Bacteroids.	We determined the activities of selected enzymes involved in carbon metabolism in free-living cells of Rhizobium tropici CFN299 grown in minimal medium with different carbon sources and in bacteroids of the same strain. The set of enzymatic activities in sucrose-grown cells suggests that the pentose phosphate pathway, with the participation of the Entner-Doudoroff pathway, is probably the primary route for sugar catabolism. In glutamate- and malate-grown cells, high activities of the gluconeogenic enzymes (phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase, fructose-6-phosphate aldolase, and fructose bisphosphatase) were detected. In bacteroids, isolated in Percoll gradients, the levels of activity for many of the enzymes measured were similar to those of malate-grown cells, except that higher activities of glucokinase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, and NAD-dependent phosphogluconate dehydrogenase were detected. Phosphoglucomutase and UDP glucose pyrophosphorylase showed high and constant levels under all growth conditions and in bacteroids.	1994 Jul	Romanov, V I; Romanov, VI; Romanov; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas, I; Hernández-Lucas; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Appl Environ Microbiol
16349254	Limited Genetic Diversity in the Endophytic Sugarcane Bacterium Acetobacter diazotrophicus.	Acetobacter diazotrophicus isolates that originated from different sugarcane cultivars growing in diverse geographic regions of Mexico and Brazil were shown to have limited genetic diversity. Measurements of polymorphism in the electrophoretic mobilities of metabolic enzymes revealed that the mean genetic diversity per enzyme locus (among the four electrophoretic types distinguished) was 0.064. The results of the genetic analysis indicate that the genetic structure of A. diazotrophicus is clonal, with one largely predominant clone. Plasmids were present in 20 of 24 isolates, and the molecular sizes of the plasmids ranged from 2.0 to 170 kb. Two plasmids (a 20- to 24-kb plasmid detected in all 20 plasmid-containing isolates and a 170-kb plasmid observed in 14 isolates) were highly conserved among the isolates examined. Regardless of the presence of plasmids, all of the isolates shared a common pattern of nif structural gene organization on the chromosome.	1994 May	Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado, J; Caballero-Mellado; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero	Appl Environ Microbiol
7873778	Identification of a novel Rhizobium meliloti nodulation efficiency nfe gene homolog of Agrobacterium ornithine cyclodeaminase.	The nfe genes located on the large plasmid pRmeGR4b are involved in the nodulation efficiency and competitiveness of Rhizobium meliloti GR4 on alfalfa roots. One hundred twenty-eight base-pairs downstream of nfe2 gene we found an open reading frame designated ORFC, 970 bp long and potentially coding for a 320 amino acid long protein. The amino acid sequence of the putatively encoded ORFC product shows similarity with ornithine cyclodeaminase (OCD) of Agrobacterium tumefaciens an unusual enzyme that converts ornithine into proline. The gene product of ORFC was identified as a 37-kDa protein by in vitro-coupled transcription-translation and in vivo by the T7 RNA polymerase/promoter system. DNA hybridization studies showed that strain GR4 carries a single copy of the ocd-like gene. No homologous sequences to GR4 ORFC DNA were found in other R. meliloti strains or Rhizobium spp. assayed. Furthermore, a GR4 derivative mutant obtained by plasmid disruption of ORFC showed an impaired nodulation efficiency as compared to that of the wild-type strain GR4. Thus, the former locus should be considered a novel nfe gene. We propose to rename the nfe genes, nfe1, 2 and ORFC as nfeA, B, and D, respectively.	1994 Nov-Dec	Soto, M J; Soto, MJ; Soto; Zorzano, A; Zorzano, A; Zorzano; García-Rodriguez, F M; García-Rodriguez, FM; García-Rodriguez; Mercado-Blanco, J; Mercado-Blanco, J; Mercado-Blanco; López-Lara, I M; López-Lara, IM; López-Lara; Olivares, J; Olivares, J; Olivares; Toro, N; Toro, N; Toro	Mol Plant Microbe Interact
8170393	Nodulating ability of Rhizobium tropici is conditioned by a plasmid-encoded citrate synthase.	Rhizobium species elicit the formation of nitrogen-fixing root nodules through a complex interaction between bacteria and plants. Various bacterial genes involved in the nodulation and nitrogen-fixation processes have been described and most have been localized on the symbiotic plasmids (pSym). We have found a gene encoding citrate synthase on the pSym plasmid of Rhizobium tropici, a species that forms nitrogen-fixing nodules on the roots of beans (Phaseolus vulgaris) and trees (Leucaena spp.). Citrate synthase is a key metabolic enzyme that incorporates carbon into the tricarboxylic acid cycle by catalysing the condensation of acetyl-CoA and oxaloacetic acid to form citrate. R. tropici pcsA (the plasmid citrate synthase gene) is closely related to the corresponding genes of Proteobacteria. pcsA inactivation by a Tn5-mob insertion causes the bacteria to form fewer nodules (30-50% of the original strain) and to have a decreased citrate synthase activity in minimal medium with sucrose. A clone carrying the pcsA gene complemented all the phenotypic alterations of the pcsA mutant, and conferred Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. phaseoli (which naturally lacks a plasmid citrate synthase gene) a higher nodulation and growth capacity in correlation with a higher citrate synthase activity. We have also found that pcsA gene expression is sensitive to iron availability, suggesting a possible role of pcsA in iron uptake.	1994 Jan	Pardo, M A; Pardo, MA; Pardo; Lagunez, J; Lagunez, J; Lagunez; Miranda, J; Miranda, J; Miranda; Martínez, E; Martínez, E; Martínez	Mol Microbiol
8399187	Nodulation factors from Rhizobium tropici are sulfated or nonsulfated chitopentasaccharides containing an N-methyl-N-acylglucosaminyl terminus.	Phaseolus vulgaris (common bean) can be nodulated by several Rhizobium species. Among them, Rhizobium tropici has a relatively broad host range, as it is able to infect beans, Leucaena trees, and several other legumes. This work describes the isolation and the characterization of extracellular factors (Nod factors) whose production from R. tropici was triggered by the transcriptional activation of its nod genes. These factors consist of a chitopentaose backbone in which the N-acetyl group of the nonreducing end glucosaminyl residue is replaced by an N-methyl-N-vaccenoyl one. Some of these molecules are sulfated on position 6 of the terminal reducing glucosamine.	1993 Oct	Poupot, R; Poupot, R; Poupot; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Promé, J C; Promé, JC; Promé	Biochemistry
7907211	Regulation of ammonium ion assimilation enzymes in Neurospora crassa nit-2 and ms-5 mutant strains.	In Neurospora crassa the nit-2 and nmr-1 (ms-5) loci represent the major control genes encoding regulatory proteins that allow the coordinated expression of various systems involved with the utilization of a secondary nitrogen source. In this paper we examined the effect of the nit-2 and ms-5 (nmr-1 locus) mutations on the regulation of the ammonium assimilation enzymes, glutamine synthetase and glutamate dehydrogenase, which are regulated by the products of these genes; however, glutamate synthase is not so regulated. Glutamine synthetase and glutamate dehydrogenase levels are also regulated by the amino nitrogen content. We present evidence that the ms-5 and glnr strains, which behave very similarly in their resistance to glutamine repression, are different and map in different loci.	1993 Oct	Calderón, J; Calderón, J; Calderón; Martínez, L M; Martínez, LM; Martínez	Biochem Genet
8246512	The elements for a classification of units of genetic information with a combinatorial component.	An integrative approach to the study of the regulation of gene expression has been undertaken here. The main goal of this approach is to make explicit the common rules that govern the relative location of regulatory sites within operons and other units of genetic information (UGIs). A classification that emphasizes the regulatory properties of UGIs can be achieved by partitioning UGIs into short sequences with defined properties. Such a classification scheme can be precisely defined as a Grammar with a component of combinatorial (rewriting) rules, and a dictionary component. Sequences have then to be grouped into classes such that any sequence of the same class can mutually substitute and produce novel regulatable UGIs. It is shown here that individual nucleotides cannot define such classes--they are far from equivalent to phonemes. Neither pairs, triplets or any short sequence with a defined number of nucleotides can define productive substitutions. Defined sequences like promoter, operator and activator binding sites are the smallest elements of combinatorial rules within the defined range of transcription initiation of sigma 70 Escherichia coli promoters.	1993 Aug	Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	J Theor Biol
8506337	Gene amplification in Rhizobium: identification and in vivo cloning of discrete amplifiable DNA regions (amplicons) from Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar phaseoli.	A genetic element that allows the positive selection of different genomic rearrangements was used to analyze DNA amplification in Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar phaseoli. Discrete amplifiable DNA regions (amplicons) were detected in different regions of the genome of the model strain CFN42, including the chromosome and several large plasmids. Amplicons were mobilized into Escherichia coli using a genetic approach that involves the introduction of an origin of replication active in E. coli and an origin of conjugal transfer into the amplifiable DNA regions of the Rhizobium genome. The strategy can be a valuable tool for studies on genome organization and function. We propose that amplicons define a structural characteristic of the genome that may play an important biological role.	1993 Jun	Flores, M; Flores, M; Flores; Brom, S; Brom, S; Brom; Stepkowski, T; Stepkowski, T; Stepkowski; Girard, M L; Girard, ML; Girard; Dávila, G; Dávila, G; Dávila; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
8491702	Characterization and symbiotic importance of acidic extracellular polysaccharides of Rhizobium sp. strain GRH2 isolated from acacia nodules.	Rhizobium sp. wild-type strain GRH2 was originally isolated from root nodules of the leguminous tree Acacia cyanophylla and has a broad host range which includes herbaceous legumes, e.g., Trifolium spp. We examined the extracellular exopolysaccharides (EPSs) produced by strain GRH2 and found three independent glycosidic structures: a high-molecular-weight acidic heteropolysaccharide which is very similar to the acidic EPS produced by Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar trifolii ANU843, a low-molecular-weight native heterooligosaccharide resembling a dimer of the repeat unit of the high-molecular-weight EPS, and low-molecular-weight neutral beta (1,2)-glucans. A Tn5 insertion mutant derivative of GRH2 (exo-57) that fails to form acidic heteropolysaccharides was obtained. This Exo- mutant formed nitrogen-fixing nodules on Acacia plants but infected a smaller proportion of cells in the central zone of the nodules than did wild-type GRH2. In addition, the exo-57 mutant failed to nodulate several herbaceous legume hosts that are nodulated by wild-type strain GRH2.	1993 May	Lopez-Lara, I M; Lopez-Lara, IM; Lopez-Lara; Orgambide, G; Orgambide, G; Orgambide; Dazzo, F B; Dazzo, FB; Dazzo; Olivares, J; Olivares, J; Olivares; Toro, N; Toro, N; Toro	J Bacteriol
8494746	Reclassification of American Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar phaseoli type I strains as Rhizobium etli sp. nov.	A new Rhizobium species that nodulates Phaseolus vulgaris L. is proposed on the basis of a sequence analysis of 16S ribosomal DNA. This taxon, Rhizobium etli sp. nov., was previously named Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar phaseoli (type I strains) and is characterized by the capacity to establish an effective symbiosis with bean plants, the reiteration of the nitrogenase structural genes, the organization of the common nodulation genes into two separate transcriptional units bearing nodA and nodBC, the presence of the polysaccharide inhibition gene, psi, and the 16S ribosomal DNA sequence. An analysis of the sequence of a fragment of the 16S rRNA gene shows that this gene is quite different from the gene of R. leguminosarum. In addition, all R. etli strains have identical sequences. We describe these analyses and discuss additional evidence supporting our proposal.	1993 Apr	Segovia, L; Segovia, L; Segovia; Young, J P; Young, JP; Young; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Int J Syst Bacteriol
8374070	A linguistic representation of the regulation of transcription initiation. I. An ordered array of complex symbols with distinctive features.	The inadequacy of context-free grammars in the description of regulatory information contained in DNA gave the formal justification for a linguistic approach to the study of gene regulation. Based on that result, we have initiated a linguistic formalization of the regulatory arrays of 107 sigma 70 E. coli promoters. The complete sequences of promoter (Pr), operator (Op) and activator binding sites (I) have previously been identified as the smallest elements, or categories, for a combinatorial analysis of the range of transcription initiation of sigma 70 promoters. These categories are conceptually equivalent to phonemes of natural language. Several features associated with these categories are required in a complete description of regulatory arrays of promoters. We have to select the best way to describe the properties that are pertinent for the description of such regulatory regions. In this paper we define distinctive features of regulatory regions based on the following criteria: identification of subclasses of substitutable elements, simplicity, selection of the most directly related information, and distinction of one array among the whole set of promoters. Alternative ways to represent distances in between regulatory sites are discussed, permitting, together with a principle of precedence, the identification of an ordered set of complex symbols as a unique representation for a promoter and its associated regulatory sites. In the accompanying paper additional distinctive features of promoters and regulatory sites are identified.	1993	Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Biosystems
8374063	A linguistic representation of the regulation of transcription initiation. II. Distinctive features of sigma 70 promoters and their regulatory binding sites.	The goal of this paper and the accompanying one is to achieve a linguistic representation of a set of sigma 70 promoters. Such a description is formed by an ordered concatenated array of complex symbols identified by their categorical property, i.e. promoter, operator, activator binding site, etc. Each of these symbols may contain several properties associated with their respective classes of 'molecular words'. The main problem in attaining such a description is to define which properties are going to be represented, and how. In the accompanying paper the criteria on which the selection of alternative descriptions is based were discussed. The properties of promoters and regulatory sites are discussed here, and their corresponding distinctive features are selected following such criteria. Thus, information that is not directly relevant and that can overspecify the description has been excluded, since it does not seem to contribute to identifying classes of substitutable elements. Other properties, such as strength of promoters, position of regulatory sites, different types of specificities of regulatory proteins, affinity of their binding sites, etc., are also discussed. As a result of this analysis, a complete representation with distinctive features of the set of sigma 70 promoters is attainable.	1993	Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Biosystems
1409648	Grammatical model of the regulation of gene expression.	Based on a formal proof that justifies the search for generative grammars in the study of gene regulation, a linguistic formalization of an exhaustive data base of Escherichia coli sigma 70 promoters and their regulatory binding sites has been initiated. The grammar presented here generates all the arrays of the collection plus those that are predicted as consistent with the principles of regulation of sigma 70 promoters. "Systems of regulation," sets of regulatory sites that collaborate in a mechanism of regulation, are represented by means of syntactic categories. A small set of phrase structure rules restricted by an X-bar principle and by a hierarchical, c-command relation generates a representation of arrays of sites of regulation where the selection of the protein(s) identifying the system(s) of regulation occurs. Based on the features of the proteins, optional duplicated proximal and remote sites are generated by means of transformational rules. Consistency with the data, the predictions that the grammar generates, and important similarities and differences with some aspects of the generative theory of natural language are discussed.	1992 Oct	Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
1644746	Different plasmids of Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. phaseoli are required for optimal symbiotic performance.	Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. phaseoli CFN42 contains six plasmids (pa to pf), and pd has been shown to be the symbiotic plasmid. To determine the participation of the other plasmids in cellular functions, we used a positive selection scheme to isolate derivatives cured of each plasmid. These were obtained for all except one (pe), of which only deleted derivatives were recovered. In regard to symbiosis, we found that in addition to pd, pb is also indispensable for nodulation, partly owing to the presence of genes involved in lipopolysaccharide synthesis. The positive contribution of pb, pc, pe, and pf to the symbiotic capacity of the strain was revealed in competition experiments. The strains that were cured (or deleted for pe) were significantly less competitive than the wild type. Analysis of the growth capacity of the cured strains showed the participation of the plasmids in free-living conditions: the pf- strain was unable to grow on minimal medium, while strains cured of any other plasmid had significantly reduced growth capacity in this medium. Even on rich medium, strains lacking pb or pc or deleted for pe had a diminished growth rate compared with the wild type. Complementation of the cured strains with the corresponding wild-type plasmid restored their original phenotypes, thus confirming that the effects seen were due only to loss of plasmids. The results indicate global participation of the Rhizobium genome in symbiotic and free-living functions.	1992 Aug	Brom, S; Brom, S; Brom; García de los Santos, A; García de los Santos, A; García de los Santos; Stepkowsky, T; Stepkowsky, T; Stepkowsky; Flores, M; Flores, M; Flores; Dávila, G; Dávila, G; Dávila; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios	J Bacteriol
1573904	A dynamical model for a co-operative enzyme.	Proteins partially immersed in the hydrophobic portion of a lipid bilayer interact by means of London-van der Waals non-bonding dispersion forces. Moreover, in certain organelles, enzymes are structured in a lattice or ordered matrix. These conditions may facilitate the establishment of long-range correlations between proteins. We studied the dynamical properties of a model for an enzyme endowed with a highly co-operative conformational transition between two reactive states. Two cases were considered, a closed system and an open system. In the closed system for different degrees of interaction among the proteins, it was found that for a substrate concentration greater than a certain threshold an abrupt change of enzymatic activity occurs. This biphasic behavior has been observed in the enzymatic activity of crystalline mitochondrial aspartate aminotransferase and for some other crystalline enzymes. In the analysis of the open system, for a specific input rate of the substrate, two different dynamics were found depending on the selected degree of interaction. For a certain value of a parameter phi, representing the degree of interaction among the reacting units, three steady states co-exist. This multiplicity confers excitable properties to the model. For larger values of phi, limit cycle type solutions were obtained. Thus, a sustained oscillatory product formation of the enzymatic reaction is observed. These results are compared with experimental observations of enzyme extracts detected by NMR.	1992 Jan	Lara-Ochoa, F; Lara-Ochoa, F; Lara-Ochoa; Herrera, A; Herrera, A; Herrera	J Theor Biol
1524708	The multiple-minima problem in small peptides revisited. The Threshold Accepting approach.	A recently reported optimization method, known as Threshold Accepting, was tested for the purpose of locating the structure of several peptide molecules with the lowest conformational energy. A comparison with previous results obtained with the Simulated Annealing technique was made. Our study indicate Threshold Accepting as a better technique in locating such structures.	1992 Apr	Morales, L B; Morales, LB; Morales; Garduño-Juárez, R; Garduño-Juárez, R; Garduño-Juárez; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero	J Biomol Struct Dyn
1943993	Control site location and transcriptional regulation in Escherichia coli.	The regulatory regions for 119 Escherichia coli promoters have been analyzed, and the locations of the regulatory sites have been cataloged. The following observations emerge. (i) More than 95% of promoters are coregulated with at least one other promoter. (ii) Virtually all sigma 70 promoters contain at least one regulatory site in a proximal position, touching at least position -65 with respect to the start point of transcription. There are not yet clear examples of upstream regulation in the absence of a proximal site. (iii) Operators within regulons appear in very variable proximal positions. By contrast, the proximal activation sites of regulons are much more fixed. (iv) There is a forbidden zone for activation elements downstream from approximately position -20 with respect to the start of transcription. By contrast, operators can occur throughout the proximal region. When activation elements appear in the forbidden zone, they repress. These latter examples usually involve autoregulation. (v) Approximately 40% of repressible promoters contain operator duplications. These occur either in certain regulons where duplication appears to be a requirement for repressor action or in promoters subject to complex regulation. (vi) Remote operator duplications occur in approximately 10% of repressible promoters. They generally appear when a multiple promoter region is coregulated by cyclic AMP receptor protein. (vii) Sigma 54 promoters do not require proximal or precisely positioned activator elements and are not generally subject to negative regulation. Rationales are presented for all of the above observations.	1991 Sep	Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides; Magasanik, B; Magasanik, B; Magasanik; Gralla, J D; Gralla, JD; Gralla	Microbiol Rev
1715738	Rhizobium tropici, a novel species nodulating Phaseolus vulgaris L. beans and Leucaena sp. trees.	A new Rhizobium species that nodulates Phaseolus vulgaris L. and Leucaena spp. is proposed on the basis of the results of multilocus enzyme electrophoresis, DNA-DNA hybridization, an analysis of ribosomal DNA organization, a sequence analysis of 16S rDNA, and an analysis of phenotypic characteristics. This taxon, Rhizobium tropici sp. nov., was previously named Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar phaseoli (type II strains) and was recognized by its host range (which includes Leucaena spp.) and nif gene organization. In contrast to R. leguminosarum biovar phaseoli, R. tropici strains tolerate high temperatures and high levels of acidity in culture and are symbiotically more stable. We identified two subgroups within R. tropici and describe them in this paper.	1991 Jul	Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Segovia, L; Segovia, L; Segovia; Mercante, F M; Mercante, FM; Mercante; Franco, A A; Franco, AA; Franco; Graham, P; Graham, P; Graham; Pardo, M A; Pardo, MA; Pardo	Int J Syst Bacteriol
1913213	The search for a grammatical theory of gene regulation is formally justified by showing the inadequacy of context-free grammars.	No one questions the important practical contributions of computer sciences to molecular biology. It may well be that one day theoretical contributions also will become useful. One example of this type of interdisciplinary research is the attempt to construct a grammatical theory of the regulation of gene expression. In this paper, I demonstrate that context-free grammars are inadequate for the description of regulatory properties coded in the DNA. This result is supported by data available in the literature that show changes in the specificity of the recognition between regulatory proteins and their DNA targets. This result is an important limitation for the use of statistical approaches such as information theory as a source of inspiration for a theory of gene regulation. Additionally, such a demonstration gives formal justification to the search for more elaborate grammatical models in the study of gene regulation. Some basic proposals for such grammatical approach have been presented previously.	1991 Jul	Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	Comput Appl Biosci
2013564	Structural complexity of the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. phaseoli.	The complete physical map of the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. phaseoli strain CFN42 was established. The data support the concept that Rhizobium symbiotic genes are part of a complex genomic structure which contains a large amount of reiterated DNA sequences. This plasmid is a circular structure of 390 kb with approximately 10 families of internally reiterated DNA sequences of two to three elements each. One family includes two directly oriented nitrogenase operons situated 120 kb apart. We also found several stretches of pSym that are reiterated in other replicons of the cell. Localization of symbiotic gene sequences by heterologous hybridization revealed that nodABC sequences are separated in two regions, each of which contains a nod boxlike element, and it also suggested the presence of two copies of the nifA and nodD gene sequences. We propose that the complex structure of the symbiotic plasmid allows interactions between repeated DNA sequences which, in turn, might result in frequent rearrangements.	1991 Apr	Girard, M L; Girard, ML; Girard; Flores, M; Flores, M; Flores; Brom, S; Brom, S; Brom; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios; Dávila, G; Dávila, G; Dávila	J Bacteriol
17014780	A dynamical model for phospholipid-calcium binding.	A model for an isothermal gel-liquid crystalline transition induced by ionic binding is proposed. A Ginsburg-Landau functional was used to describe the long-range order that spontaneously arises during the transition. By calculation of the corresponding chemical potential we obtain the mass current of phospholipids in gel-phase described by an order parameter. In the conservation of mass equation the kinetics of the phospholipids-calcium interaction is introduced, together with the flux divergency. A circular membrane is considered for the analysis, so that the model can be studied in polar coordinates. A solution approximated to first order shows an heterogeneous distribution of domains of phospholipids in gel and liquid crystalline phases. These spatial domains have been detected experimentally by diverse methods in vesicles and cellular membranes. Spatial heterogeneities may cause destabilization of the membrane in the boundaries between domains. This may explain the enhanced vesicle fusion observed in the presence of Ca2+.	1991 May	Lara-Ochoa, F; Lara-Ochoa, F; Lara-Ochoa	Biophys Chem
1827113	Loss of NAD(P)-reducing power and glutathione disulfide excretion at the start of induction of aerial growth in Neurospora crassa.	When exponentially growing hyphae of Neurospora crassa in aerated liquid cultures are filtered and the resulting mycelial mat is exposed to air, aerial hyphae develop and synchronous conidiation is obtained. The hyphae in direct contact with air adhere to each other within minutes and form aerial hyphae during the following 12 h; the hyphae which are not in direct contact with air do not adhere to each other and do not form aerial hyphae. Previous data indicated that oxidative stress was generated in the adhering hyphae; proteins and specific enzymes were found to be oxidatively modified and degraded. In this work, we report a dramatic fall in the reduced-to-oxidized ratio of NAD and NADP coenzymes during the first 6 min of exposure to air. This drop did not occur in a mycelial mat exposed to a N2-enriched atmosphere. Adding a carbon source to the mycelial mat did not abolish the loss of NAD(P)-reducing power. After the initial fall, the reducing levels of the coenzymes returned to the starting value in about 30 min. A peak of extracellular glutathione disulfide occurred simultaneously with the loss of NAD(P)-reducing power. The reducing power loss and the excretion of glutathione disulfide are thought to be consequences of a hyperoxidant state; the adhesion of hyphae is thought to be a response to the hyperoxidant state.	1991 May	Toledo, I; Toledo, I; Toledo; Noronha-Dutra, A A; Noronha-Dutra, AA; Noronha-Dutra; Hansberg, W; Hansberg, W; Hansberg	J Bacteriol
2022610	Molecular cloning and characterization of the recA gene of Rhizobium phaseoli and construction of recA mutants.	The Rhizobium phaseoli recA gene has been cloned by interspecific complementation of the Fec phenotype of bacteriophage lambda. The cloned gene restored the recombination proficiency and conferred resistance to DNA-damaging agents (methyl methanesulfonate and nitrofurantoin) to an Escherichia coli recA mutant. The direction of transcription and the localization of the recA gene were determined by mutagenesis with phage MudIIPR13 and heterologous hybridization with an E. coli recA probe. An R. phaseoli recA::Spcr mutation was introduced in two R. phaseoli strains by homogenotization. The R. phaseoli recA mutants were more sensitive to DNA-damaging agents and exhibited a 100-fold reduction in recombination frequency as compared with their parental strains. A deletion of the symbiotic plasmid abolishing nodulation was found at high frequency (10(-2)) in R. phaseoli CNF42. This event was recA dependent. In R. phaseoli CFN285, two events of symbiotic instability were found at high frequency (10(-3]: one was a deletion in the symbiotic plasmid, and the other was the loss of whole symbiotic plasmid. In the CFN285 recA::Spcr mutant, only the loss of the symbiotic plasmid was observed.	1991 May	Martínez-Salazar, J M; Martínez-Salazar, JM; Martínez-Salazar; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Girard, M L; Girard, ML; Girard; Dávila, G; Dávila, G; Dávila	J Bacteriol
2013567	Amplification and deletion of a nod-nif region in the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium phaseoli.	One remarkable characteristic of the genomes of some Rhizobium species is the frequent occurrence of rearrangements. In some instances these rearrangements alter the symbiotic properties of the strains. However, no detailed molecular mechanisms have been proposed for the generation of these rearrangements. To understand the mechanisms involved in the formation of rearrangements in the genome of Rhizobium phaseoli, we have designed a system which allows the positive selection for amplification and deletion events. We have applied this system to investigate the stability of the symbiotic plasmid of R. phaseoli. High-frequency amplification events were detected which increase the copy number of a 120-kb region carrying nodulation and nitrogen fixation genes two to eight times. Deletion events that affect the same region were also found, albeit at a lower frequency. Both kinds of rearrangements are generated by recombination between reiterated nitrogenase (nifHDK) operons flanking the 120-kb region.	1991 Apr	Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Brom, S; Brom, S; Brom; Martínez-Salazar, J; Martínez-Salazar, J; Martínez-Salazar; Girard, M L; Girard, ML; Girard; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios; Dávila, G; Dávila, G; Dávila	J Bacteriol
1857210	Formation of Rhizobium phaseoli symbiotic plasmids by genetic recombination.	We report here the formation of symbiotic plasmids (pSyms), by genetic recombination between rearranged pSyms, which lack symbiotic information, and resistance plasmids carrying parts of different symbiotic plasmids (R's). This recombination was found to occur both between plasmids derived from different Rhizobium phaseoli isolates, and between plasmids derived from strains obtained from the same original isolate. We also present evidence on the formation of a functional symbiotic plasmid by recombination of an R', carrying nif and nod genes from strain CFN42, and an indigenous plasmid present in this strain (pCFN42e), which was thought to be unrelated to its symbiotic plasmid (pCFN42d). These data are discussed with respect to the stability and transfer of Rhizobium symbiotic information.	1991 Apr	Soberón-Chávez, G; Soberón-Chávez, G; Soberón-Chávez; Nájera, R; Nájera, R; Nájera; Espín, G; Espín, G; Espín; Moreno, S; Moreno, S; Moreno	Mol Microbiol
1707606	Genetic structure of a soil population of nonsymbiotic Rhizobium leguminosarum.	The genetic structure of a population of nonsymbiotic Rhizobium leguminosarum strains was determined by the electrophoretic mobilities of eight metabolic enzymes. Nonsymbiotic strains were isolated from the rhizosphere of bean plants and characterized by growth on differential media and at different temperatures, intrinsic antibiotic resistance, the lack of homology to a nifH probe, and their inability to form nodules on bean roots. All the isolates clustered with R. leguminosarum bv. phaseoli reference strains and did not encompass any other Rhizobium taxa. Their rRNA operon restriction fragment length polymorphisms and the nucleotide sequence of a fragment of the 16S rRNA gene were also found to be identical to those of R. leguminosarum bv. phaseoli reference strains. When complemented with an R. leguminosarum bv. phaseoli symbiotic plasmid (p42d), the nonsymbiotic isolates were able to fix nitrogen in symbiosis with bean roots at levels similar to those of the parental strain. The symbiotic isolates were found at a relative frequency of 1 in 40 nonsymbiotic R. leguminosarum strains.	1991 Feb	Segovia, L; Segovia, L; Segovia; Piñero, D; Piñero, D; Piñero; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Appl Environ Microbiol
2016896	A dynamical model for phase transitions of lipids induced by calcium ions.	Lipid membranes exist essentially in two different phases. A phase transition can be triggered off either by changing the temperature or, isothermally, by varying an external factor such as ionic concentration, pH, organic solvents, etc. Since the isothermal transition may be induced at physiological temperature, it may play an important regulatory role in diverse cellular functions. Based on the Landau-Ginsburg theory, the thermotropic transitions of lipids has been described by a number of models. In the present work a dynamical model for an isothermal phase transition of phospholipids induced by ionic binding is proposed. The properties of the model show that by ionic binding, phospholipids may form spatial heterogeneous distributions of lipids in fluid and crystalline phases. This heterogeneity possibly being the cause of membrane instabilities, which favour enhanced vesicle fusions observed in the presence of Ca2+.	1991 Feb	Lara-Ochoa, F; Lara-Ochoa, F; Lara-Ochoa; Lara-Moreno, E; Lara-Moreno, E; Lara-Moreno	J Theor Biol
2016901	A syntactic representation of units of genetic information--a syntax of units of genetic information.	The experimental study of the molecular mechanisms involved in the regulation of operons and other units of genetic information (UGIs) has not been accompanied by a parallel effort in integrative approaches. Following a recently obtained mathematical justification in the search of a grammatical theory of regulation, in this paper it is shown that a syntactic representation of prokaryotic simple UGIs can help the search for general rules governing their organization and regulation. Molecular categories like promoter, operator, structural gene, etc, are the elements for this level of analysis. Based on diverse types of evidence available in the literature, a principle which establishes a strictly successive representation of UGIs regulated at the initiation of transcription is derived. This linear array of categories is not enough for proposing general rules, which can be obtained by identifying groups of these categories as clusters or syntactic categories. It is shown that the notion of syntactic categories is implicitly used in the classical definition of an operon. Based on a hierarchy of biological restrictions for the construction of UGIs, a grammatical principle that defines a hierarchical relation among activator regions, promoters and operators is proposed. These proposals are integrated in a grammar that accounts for simple positively and negatively regulated UGIs.	1991 Feb	Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	J Theor Biol
2059338	Applications of simulated annealing to the multiple-minima problem in small peptides.	A Simulated Annealing method has been implemented to overcome the multiple minima problem inherent in finding the global minimum of small peptides with 2, 3, 5, 10 and 24 dihedral angles. The algorithm works much better if one introduces the anticorrelations observed in Molecular Dynamics.	1991 Feb	Morales, L B; Morales, LB; Morales; Garduño-Juárez, R; Garduño-Juárez, R; Garduño-Juárez; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero	J Biomol Struct Dyn
1991727	High-frequency rearrangements in Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. phaseoli plasmids.	High-frequency genomic rearrangements affecting the plasmids of Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. phaseoli CFN42 were analyzed. This strain contains six large plasmids ranging in size from 200 to 600 kb. In the absence of any selective pressure, we found 11 strains from 320 analyzed colonies that presented different kinds of plasmid-borne rearrangements, including sequence amplification, deletion, cointegration, and loss of plasmids. These data support the concept that the R. leguminosarum bv. phaseoli genome is a dynamic structure and imply that strains are mixtures of similar but not identical cells.	1991 Feb	Brom, S; Brom, S; Brom; García de los Santos, A; García de los Santos, A; García de los Santos; de Lourdes Girard, M; de Lourdes Girard, M; de Lourdes Girard; Dávila, G; Dávila, G; Dávila; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero	J Bacteriol
1991718	Novel organization of the common nodulation genes in Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. phaseoli strains.	Nodulation by Rhizobium, Bradyrhizobium, and Azorhizobium species in the roots of legumes and nonlegumes requires the proper expression of plant genes and of both common and specific bacterial nodulation genes. The common nodABC genes form an operon or are physically mapped together in all species studied thus far. Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. phaseoli strains are classified in two groups. The type I group has reiterated nifHDK genes and a narrow host range of nodulation. The type II group has a single copy of the nifHDK genes and a wide host range of nodulation. We have found by genetic and nucleotide sequence analysis that in type I strain CE-3, the functional common nodA gene is separated from the nodBC genes by 20 kb and thus is transcriptionally separated from the latter genes. This novel organization could be the result of a complex rearrangement, as we found zones of identity between the two separated nodA and nodBC regions. Moreover, this novel organization of the common nodABC genes seems to be a general characteristic of R. leguminosarum bv. phaseoli type I strains. Despite the separation, the coordination of the expression of these genes seems not to be altered.	1991 Feb	Vázquez, M; Vázquez, M; Vázquez; Dávalos, A; Dávalos, A; Dávalos; de las Peñas, A; de las Peñas, A; de las Peñas; Sánchez, F; Sánchez, F; Sánchez; Quinto, C; Quinto, C; Quinto	J Bacteriol
1863715	On the skew distribution of immunoglobulins and the inverted protein-folding problem.	The question of antibody specificity is discussed in the framework of the inverted protein-folding problem (i.e. the characterization of protein sequences with a common fold). A stochastic model of the immune response, patterned after a model for the distribution of words in natural languages is proposed. It is shown that the steady-state probability distribution of immunoglobulin variable-region frequencies is the Yule distribution.	1991	Jiménez-Montaño, M A; Jiménez-Montaño, MA; Jiménez-Montaño; Lara-Ochoa, F; Lara-Ochoa, F; Lara-Ochoa	Biosystems
1975579	Isolation and characterization of a Neurospora crassa mutant altered in the alpha polypeptide of glutamine synthetase.	We report the isolation and characterization of a Neurospora crassa glutamine synthetase (GS) mutant altered in one of the two polypeptides (GS alpha) of this enzyme. We used the gln-1bR8 mutant strain that synthesizes only the GS alpha monomer and lacks the GS beta monomer and selected for growth in minimal medium in the presence of alpha-methyl-DL-methionine-SR-sulfoximine (alpha-me-MSO), an inhibitor of GS activity. The GS activity of the gln-1bR8;alpha-me-MSOR strain drastically reduced its transferase activity and only slightly reduced its synthetase activity, and it was resistant to inhibition by alpha-me-MSO and L-methionine-DL-sulfoximine. The mutation that overcame the inhibitory effect of alpha-me-MSO also altered the antigenic, kinetic, and physical properties of GS alpha. The low GS activity of the alpha-me-MSO-resistant strain was compensated for by a higher glutamate/glutamine ratio and a lower glutamate synthase activity, allowing this strain to grow as well as the parental strain. The mutation that conferred resistance to alpha-me-MSO was not linked to the gln-1bR8 mutation, providing direct evidence of the existence of two genes involved with the structure of the two polypeptides of N. crassa GS.	1990 Sep	Calderón, J; Calderón, J; Calderón; Martínez, L M; Martínez, LM; Martínez; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
2145504	Glutamine metabolism and cycling in Neurospora crassa.	Evidence for the existence of a glutamine cycle in Neurospora crassa is reviewed. Through this cycle glutamine is converted into glutamate by glutamate synthase and catabolized by the glutamine transaminase-omega-amidase pathway, the products of which (2-oxoglutarate and ammonium) are the substrates for glutamate dehydrogenase-NADPH, which synthesizes glutamate. In the final step ammonium is assimilated into glutamine by the action of a glutamine synthetase (GS), which is formed by two distinct polypeptides, one catalytically very active (GS beta), and the other (GS alpha) less active but endowed with the capacity to modulate the activity of GS alpha. Glutamate synthase uses the amide nitrogen of glutamine to synthesize glutamate; glutamate dehydrogenase uses ammonium, and both are required to maintain the level of glutamate. The energy expended in the synthesis of glutamine drives the cycle. The glutamine cycle is not futile, because it is necessary to drive an effective carbon flow to support growth; in addition, it facilitates the allocation of nitrogen or carbon according to cellular demands. The glutamine cycle which dissipates energy links catabolism and anabolism and, in doing so, buffers variations in the nutrient supply and drives energy generation and carbon flow for optimal cell function.	1990 Sep	Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	Microbiol Rev
16348252	Increased Bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) Nodulation Competitiveness of Genetically Modified Rhizobium Strains.	Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. phaseoli strain collections harbor heterogeneous groups of bacteria in which two main types of strains may be distinguished, differing both in the symbiotic plasmid and in the chromosome. We have analyzed under laboratory conditions the competitive abilities of the different types of Rhizobium strains capable of nodulating Phaseolus vulgaris L. bean. R. leguminosarum bv. phaseoli type I strains (characterized by nif gene reiterations and a narrow host range) are more competitive than type II strains (that have a broad host range), and both types are more competitive than the promiscuous rhizobia isolated from other tropical legumes able to nodulate beans. Type I strains become even more competitive by the transfer of a non-Sym, 225-kilobase plasmid from type II strain CFN299. This plasmid has been previously shown to enhance the nodulation and nitrogen fixation capabilities of Agrobacterium tumefaciens transconjugants carrying the Sym plasmid of strain CFN299. Other type I R. leguminosarum bv. phaseoli transconjugants carrying two symbiotic plasmids (type I and type II) have been constructed. These strains have a diminished competitive ability. The increase of competitiveness obtained in some transconjugants seems to be a transient property.	1990 Aug	Martinez-Romero, Esperanza; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Rosenblueth, Monica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth	Appl Environ Microbiol
2116373	Induction of inhibitory agent produced by Enterococcus faecalis.	The effect of treatment with inducing agents, such as mitomycin C, hydrogen peroxide and UV irradiation on the production of two inhibitors by different mutants from Enterococcus faecalis S-48 was studied. With hydrogen peroxide and UV light no increase in either the absolute or the relative amount of antagonistic substances was observed. With mitomycin C, a significant increase in the individual cell capacity for inhibitor production was detected.	1990	Lara, I; Lara, I; Lara; Martínez-Bueno, M; Martínez-Bueno, M; Martínez-Bueno; Gálvez, A; Gálvez, A; Gálvez; Maqueda, M; Maqueda, M; Maqueda; Valdivia, E; Valdivia, E; Valdivia	Folia Microbiol (Praha)
2155209	Isolation of Rhizobium phaseoli Tn5-induced mutants with altered expression of cytochrome terminal oxidases o and aa3.	Two Rhizobium phaseoli mutants affected in cytochrome expression were obtained by Tn5-mob mutagenesis of the wild-type strain (CE3). Mutant strain CFN031 expressed sevenfold less cytochrome o in culture, expressed cytochrome aa3 under microaerophilic culture conditions, in contrast to strain CE3, and was affected in its vegetative growth properties and proliferation inside plant host cells. Mutant CFN037 expressed cytochrome aa3 under microaerophilic culture conditions, while bacteroid development and nitrogen fixation occurred earlier than in strain CE3.	1990 Mar	Soberón, M; Soberón, M; Soberón; Membrillo-Hernández, J; Membrillo-Hernández, J; Membrillo-Hernández; Aguilar, G R; Aguilar, GR; Aguilar; Sánchez, F; Sánchez, F; Sánchez	J Bacteriol
2352433	Hyperoxidant states cause microbial cell differentiation by cell isolation from dioxygen.	A general theory giving an explanation of microbial cell differentiation is presented. Based on experimental results, an unstable hyperoxidant state is postulated to trigger differentiation. Simple rules, involving the reduction of dioxygen and the isolation from dioxygen by diverse mechanisms, are proposed to govern transitions between the growth state and the differentiated states. With this view, common features of microbial differentiation processes, dimorphic growth, cell differentiation in dioxygen evolving phototrophs and in anaerobes are analyzed. The theory could have implications for understanding cell differentiation in higher organisms.	1990 Jan	Hansberg, W; Hansberg, W; Hansberg; Aguirre, J; Aguirre, J; Aguirre	J Theor Biol
2127375	A model for aggregation-dispersion dynamics of a population.	An important feature that distinguishes the movement of living systems from the random motion of inorganic material is a delicate balance between spreading and concentrating. This movement is based on the kind of interactions which a bacterial colony may establish during migration. Namely, the antagonistic effects of dispersal which take place preferentially down the population gradient and the tendency in grouping together. In this work a model is proposed which considers these effects. The phase plane analysis and the numerical calculations reveal the existence of stable sharp wave front solutions. The speed of the wave front is modulated by the compromise between the tendencies of spreading and aggregating. The results obtained were compared with experimental observations in cultures of Escherichia coli and Streptococcus faecalis. The agreement between both types of results supports the hypothesis on which the model was based.	1990	Lara-Ochoa, F; Lara-Ochoa, F; Lara-Ochoa; Bustos, V P; Bustos, VP; Bustos	Biosystems
2073542	Density dependent diffusional model of an infective population.	In this work, we present a density-dependent diffusional model which, coupled to three different types of growth, permitted us to study the infective potential of a bacteria species. The results show that those species with strong internal competency have the higher colonizing capacity in terms of invasion speed. Here, we also advanced a model for the static spatial inhomogeneous distribution that some species establish after migration. It is proposed that the origin of these patterns is the result of a balance between the dispersal tendency and the attractive behavior. The results obtained were compared with the observed behavior of Rhizobium spp. during infection of leguminous roots. A possible explanation of the observed morphologies of nodule development in different legumes is suggested.	1990	Lara-Ochoa, F; Lara-Ochoa, F; Lara-Ochoa; Bustos, V P; Bustos, VP; Bustos	Biosystems
1368518	Subunit structure of karatasin, the proteinase isolated from Bromelia plumieri (karatas).	Close to 15% of the karatasin proteinase activity in the fruit juice of Bromelia plumieri (karatas) is present outside dialysis Visking tubing in 7 days in 0.2 M acetate buffer (pH) 3.5 or 6.5) containing phenyl mercuric acetate. The small proteinase(s), distinct from the 85% activity in juice due to nondialysable karatasin with a reported Mr of 24,868, separates across Spectrapore (13 kDa) membranes but not across Spectrapore with 3.5 kDa average pore diameter. The dialyzed proteinase is named karatasin-D (K-D). Purified non-Dialysable karatasin can be dissociated to what seems to be K-D by incubation in a buffer solution, containing SDS and 2-mercaptoethanol with phenyl mercuric acetate, in dialysis experiments for 8 days at room temperature using Spectrapore 13 kDa tubing. Thus, native karatasin in B. plumieri fruit juice seem to be the result of association of 2 small molecular mass K-D subunits, linked together by disulfide bonds and electrostatic forces, in equilibrium with small amounts of free K-D molecules. The amino acid composition and partial sequence of karatasin up to the 14th position from the amino terminus have discrete analogies with papain and with stem bromelain.	1990 Jan	Montes, C; Montes, C; Montes; Amador, M; Amador, M; Amador; Cuevas, D; Cuevas, D; Cuevas; Cordoba, F; Cordoba, F; Cordoba	Agric Biol Chem
2687252	Isolation and characterization of a Saccharomyces cerevisiae mutant with impaired glutamate synthase activity.	A mutant of Saccharomyces cerevisiae that lacks glutamate synthase (GOGAT) activity has been isolated. This mutant was obtained after chemical mutagenesis of a NADP-glutamate dehydrogenase-less mutant strain. The gdh gus mutant is a glutamate auxotroph. The genetic analysis of the gus mutant showed that the GOGAT-less phenotype is due to the presence of two loosely linked mutations. Evidence is presented which suggests the possibility that S. cerevisiae has two GOGAT activities, designated GOGAT A and GOGAT B. These activities can be distinguished by their pH optima and by their regulation by glutamate. Furthermore, one of the mutations responsible for the GOGAT-less phenotype affected GOGAT A activity, while the other mutation affected GOGAT B activity.	1989 Dec	Folch, J L; Folch, JL; Folch; Antaramián, A; Antaramián, A; Antaramián; Rodríguez, L; Rodríguez, L; Rodríguez; Bravo, A; Bravo, A; Bravo; Brunner, A; Brunner, A; Brunner; González, A; González, A; González	J Bacteriol
2530208	Oxidation of Neurospora crassa NADP-specific glutamate dehydrogenase by activated oxygen species.	The glutamine synthetase and the NADP-specific glutamate dehydrogenase activities of Neurospora crassa were lost in a culture without carbon source only when in the presence of air. Glutamine synthetase was previously reported to be liable to in vitro and in vivo inactivation by activated oxygen species. Here we report that NADP-specific glutamate dehydrogenase was remarkably stable in the presence of activated oxygen species but was rendered susceptible to oxidative inactivation when chelated iron was bound to the enzyme and either ascorbate or H2O2 reacted on the bound iron. This reaction gave rise to further modifications of the enzyme monomers by activated oxygen species, to partial dissociation of the oligomeric structure, and to precipitation and fragmentation of the enzyme. The in vitro oxidation reaction was affected by pH, temperature, and binding to the enzyme of NADPH. Heterogeneity in total charge was observed in the purified and immunoprecipitated enzymes, and the relative amounts of enzyme monomers with different isoelectric points changes with time of the oxidizing reaction.	1989 Nov	Aguirre, J; Aguirre, J; Aguirre; Rodríguez, R; Rodríguez, R; Rodríguez; Hansberg, W; Hansberg, W; Hansberg	J Bacteriol
2576659	Glutamine assimilation pathways in Neurospora crassa growing on glutamine as sole nitrogen and carbon source.	Neurospora crassa wild-type is almost unable to grow on glutamine as sole nitrogen and carbon source but a GDH-; GS +/- double mutant strain, lacking NADP-dependent glutamate dehydrogenase and partially lacking glutamine synthetase did grow. Under these conditions, the double mutant had a higher chemical energy content than the wild-type. Enzyme assays and labelling experiments with glutamine indicated that in the double mutant glutamine was degraded to ammonium and to carbon skeletons by glutamate synthase, the catabolic (NADH-dependent) glutamate dehydrogenase and the glutamine transaminase-omega-amidase pathway.	1989 Oct	Calderón, J; Calderón, J; Calderón; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Gen Microbiol
2698914	Role of glutamine aminotransferase in glutamine catabolism by Saccharomyces cerevisiae under microaerophilic conditions.	The involvement of glutamine aminotransferase activity in glutamine catabolism by Saccharomyces cerevisiae under microaerophilic conditions was studied. We were able to show that there are at least two different glutamine aminotransferase activities that are differentiated genetically, by their substrate specificity (pyruvate and glyoxylate dependence), and their different modes of regulation. The pyruvate-dependent glutamine aminotransferase activity plays a major role in glutamine catabolism under microaerophilic conditions since the wild-type strain S288C showed a 10-fold higher activity in static cultures than in agitated ones. The same strain also had 3-fold higher glutaminase B activity in agitated cultures than in static ones. Pyruvate-dependent glutamine aminotransferase activity is not regulated directly by O2 itself since a rho- strain showed a high activity regardless of the extent of aeration of cultures. Finally, we were able to isolate a mutant, strain CN20, derived from the rho- strain and unable to utilize glutamine as the sole nitrogen source, which was severely affected in pyruvate-dependent but not in glyoxylate-dependent aminotransferase activity.	1989 Oct	Soberón, M; Soberón, M; Soberón; Olamendi, J; Olamendi, J; Olamendi; Rodríguez, L; Rodríguez, L; Rodríguez; González, A; González, A; González	J Gen Microbiol
2552255	Characterization of Rhizobium phaseoli Sym plasmid regions involved in nodule morphogenesis and host-range specificity.	Two nodulation regions from the symbiotic plasmid (pSym) of Rhizobium phaseoli CE-3 were identified. The two regions were contained in overlapping cosmids pSM927 and pSM991. These cosmids, in a R. phaseoli pSym-cured strain background, induced ineffective nodules on Phaseolus vulgaris roots. Transconjugants of Rhizobium meliloti harbouring pSM991 induced nodule-like structures on bean roots, suggesting that this cosmid contains host-range determinants. Analysis of deletions and insertional mutations in the sequences of pSM991 indicated that the genes responsible for the induction and development of nodules in P. vulgaris are organized in two regions 20 kb apart. One region, located in a 6.8 kb EcoRI fragment, includes the common nodABC genes. The other region, located in a 3.5 kb EcoRI fragment, contains information required for host-range determination.	1989 Jul	Cevallos, M A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Vázquez, M; Vázquez, M; Vázquez; Dávalos, A; Dávalos, A; Dávalos; Espín, G; Espín, G; Espín; Sepúlveda, J; Sepúlveda, J; Sepúlveda; Quinto, C; Quinto, C; Quinto	Mol Microbiol
2522094	13N isotope studies of glutamine assimilation pathways in Neurospora crassa.	L-[amide-13N]glutamine in Neurospora crassa is metabolized to [13N]glutamate by glutamate synthase and to [13N]ammonium by the glutamine transaminase-omega-amidase pathway. The [13N]ammonium released is assimilated by glutamate dehydrogenase and glutamine synthetase, confirming the operation of a glutamine cycle. Most of the nitrogen is retained during cycling between glutamate and glutamine.	1989 Mar	Calderón, J; Calderón, J; Calderón; Cooper, A J; Cooper, AJ; Cooper; Gelbard, A S; Gelbard, AS; Gelbard; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
2811400	A transformational-grammar approach to the study of the regulation of gene expression.	An important problem in biology is the lack of a set of common principles unifying biological knowledge. We propose generative grammar for constructing an integrative paradigm for the understanding of genome organization and the regulation of gene expression. Linguistic terms in molecular biology are defined. A genetic syntactic structure is defined as being equivalent to a sentence. The hypotheses for the grammar of genome structure are: (i) the "grammaticality" of the linguistic approach studies the "regulability" of genome structures; (ii) the "regulability" of genetic structures is independent from their specific biochemical meaning and (iii) the dynamics of regulation is implicit in the genome structure. A general structure is presented for the grammar; the application of phase-structure rules is justified by the existence of lexical categories. Transformational rules are utilized to represent loops of regulation. Negative inducible, positive repressible, positive inducible and negative repressible alternative mechanisms of regulation are represented, by four transformational rules, and the application of these rules is established by two principles. Finally, this approach is compared to other linguistic applications in molecular biology.	1989 Feb	Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides, J; Collado-Vides	J Theor Biol
2644201	Isolation of a Rhizobium phaseoli cytochrome mutant with enhanced respiration and symbiotic nitrogen fixation.	Cultured cells of a Rhizobium phaseoli wild-type strain (CE2) possess b-type and c-type cytochromes and two terminal oxidases: cytochromes o and aa3. Cytochrome aa3 was partially expressed when CE2 cells were grown on minimal medium, during symbiosis, and in well-aerated liquid cultures in a complex medium (PY2). Two cytochrome mutants of R. phaseoli were obtained and characterized. A Tn5-mob-induced mutant, CFN4201, expressed diminished amounts of b-type and c-type cytochromes, showed an enhanced expression of cytochrome oxidases, and had reduced levels of N,N,N',N'-tetramethyl-p-phenylenediamine, succinate, and NADH oxidase activities. Nodules formed by this strain had no N2 fixation activity. The other mutant, CFN4205, which was isolated by nitrosoguanidine mutagenesis, had reduced levels of cytochrome o and higher succinate oxidase activity but similar NADH and N,N,N',N'-tetramethyl-p-phenylenediamine oxidase activities when compared with the wild-type strain. Strain CFN4205 expressed a fourfold-higher cytochrome aa3 content when cultured on minimal and complex media and had twofold-higher cytochrome aa3 levels during symbiosis when compared with the wild-type strain. Nodules formed by strain CFN4205 fixed 33% more N2 than did nodules formed by the wild-type strain, as judged by the total nitrogen content found in plants nodulated by these strains. Finally, low-temperature photodissociation spectra of whole cells from strains CE2 and CFN4205 reveal cytochromes o and aa3. Both cytochromes react with O2 at -180 degrees C to give a light-insensitive compound. These experiments identify cytochromes o and aa3 as functional terminal oxidases in R. phaseoli.	1989 Jan	Soberón, M; Soberón, M; Soberón; Williams, H D; Williams, HD; Williams; Poole, R K; Poole, RK; Poole; Escamilla, E; Escamilla, E; Escamilla	J Bacteriol
3214160	Genetic diversity and relationships among isolates of Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar phaseoli.	Fifty-one isolates of Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar phaseoli from various geographic and ecological sources, largely in Mexico, were characterized by the electrophoretic mobilities of 15 metabolic enzymes, and 46 distinctive multilocus genotypes (electrophoretic types [ETs]) were distinguished on the basis of allele profiles at the enzyme loci. Mean genetic diversity per enzyme locus among the 46 ETs was 0.691, the highest value yet recorded for any species of bacterium. The occurrence of strong nonrandom associations of alleles over loci suggested a basically clonal population structure, reflecting infrequent recombination of chromosomal genes. Multilocus genotypic diversity was unusually high, with the most strongly differentiated pairs of ETs having distinctive alleles at all 15 loci and major clusters of ETs diverging at genetic distances as large as 0.89. This great diversity in the chromosomal genome raises the possibility that R. leguminosarum biovar phaseoli is a polyphyletic assemblage of strains. As other workers have suggested, the inclusion of all strains capable of nodulating beans in a single biovar or species is genetically unrealistic and taxonomically misleading. A biologically meaningful classification of Rhizobium spp. should be based on assessment of variation in the chromosomal genome rather than on phenotypic characters, especially those mediated for the most part or wholly by plasmid-borne genes, such as host relationships.	1988 Nov	Pinero, D; Pinero, D; Pinero; Martinez, E; Martinez, E; Martinez; Selander, R K; Selander, RK; Selander	Appl Environ Microbiol
16347637	Narrow- and Broad-Host-Range Symbiotic Plasmids of Rhizobium spp. Strains That Nodulate Phaseolus vulgaris.	Agrobacterium transconjugants containing symbiotic plasmids from different Rhizobium spp. strains that nodulate Phaseolus vulgaris were obtained. All transconjugants conserved the parental nodulation host range. Symbiotic (Sym) plasmids of Rhizobium strains isolated originally from P. vulgaris nodules, which had a broad nodulation host range, and single-copy nitrogenase genes conferred a Fix phenotype to the Agrobacterium transconjugants. A Fix phenotype was obtained with Sym plasmids of strains isolated from P. vulgaris nodules that had a narrow host range and reiterated nif genes, as well as with Sym plasmids of strains isolated from other legumes that presented single nif genes and a broad nodulation host range. This indicates that different types of Sym plasmids can confer the ability to establish an effective symbiosis with P. vulgaris.	1988 May	Brom, S; Brom, S; Brom; Martinez, E; Martinez, E; Martinez; Dávila, G; Dávila, G; Dávila; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios	Appl Environ Microbiol
16347593	Effect of Naturally Occurring nif Reiterations on Symbiotic Effectiveness in Rhizobium phaseoli.	Most naturally occurring strains of Rhizobium phaseoli possess reiteration of the nif genes. Three regions contain nitrogenase structural genes in strain CFN42. Two of these regions (a and b) have copies of nifH, nifD, and nifK, whereas the third region (c) contains only nifH. Strains containing mutations in either nif region a or nif region b had significantly diminished symbiotic effectiveness compared with the wild-type strain on the basis of nodule mass, total nitrogenase activity per plant, nitrogenase specific activity, total nitrogen in the shoot, and percentage of nitrogen. A strain containing mutations in both nif region a and nif region b was totally ineffective. These data indicate that both nif region a and nif region b are needed for full symbiotic effectiveness in R. phaseoli.	1988 Mar	Romero, David; Romero, D; Romero; Singleton, Paul W; Singleton, PW; Singleton; Segovia, Lorenzo; Segovia, L; Segovia; Morett, Enrique; Morett, E; Morett; Bohlool, B Ben; Bohlool, BB; Bohlool; Palacios, Rafael; Palacios, R; Palacios; Dávila, Guillermo; Dávila, G; Dávila	Appl Environ Microbiol
2892829	Ammonium assimilation in Rhizobium phaseoli by the glutamine synthetase-glutamate synthase pathway.	Evidence from in vitro and in vivo studies showed that in Rhizobium phaseoli ammonium is assimilated by the glutamine synthetase (GS)-glutamate synthase NADPH pathway. No glutamate dehydrogenase activity was detected. R. phaseoli has two GS enzymes, as do other rhizobia. The two GS activities are regulated on the basis of the requirement for low (GSI) or high (GSII) ammonium assimilation. When the 2-oxoglutarate/glutamine ratio decreases, GSI is adenylylated. When GSI is inactivated, GSII is induced. However, induction of GSII activity varied depending on the rate of change of this ratio. GSII was inactivated after the addition of high ammonium concentrations, when the 2-oxoglutarate/glutamine ratio decreased rapidly. Ammonium inactivation resulted in alteration of the catalytic and physical properties of GSII. GSII inactivation was not relieved by shifting of the cultures to glutamate. After GSII inactivation, ammonium was excreted into the medium. Glutamate synthase activity was inhibited by some organic acids and repressed when cells were grown with glutamate as the nitrogen source.	1988 Feb	Bravo, A; Bravo, A; Bravo; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
2448295	gltBDF operon of Escherichia coli.	A 2.0-kilobase DNA fragment carrying antibiotic resistance markers was inserted into the gltB gene of Escherichia coli previously cloned in a multicopy plasmid. Replacement of the chromosomal gltB+ gene by the gltB225::omega mutation led to cells unable to synthesize glutamate synthase, utilize growth rate-limiting nitrogen sources, or derepress their glutamine synthetase. The existence of a gltBDF operon encoding the large (gltB) and small (gltD) subunits of glutamate synthase and a regulatory peptide (gltF) at 69 min of the E. coli linkage map was deduced from complementation analysis. A plasmid carrying the entire gltB+D+F+ operon complemented cells for all three of the mutant phenotypes associated with the polar gltB225::omega mutation in the chromosome. By contrast, plasmids carrying gltB+ only complemented cells for glutamate synthase activity. A major tricistronic mRNA molecule was detected from Northern (RNA blot) DNA-RNA hybridization experiments with DNA probes containing single genes of the operon. A 30,200-dalton polypeptide was identified as the gltF product, the lack of which was responsible for the inability of cells to use nitrogen-limiting sources associated with gltB225::omega.	1988 Feb	Castaño, I; Castaño, I; Castaño; Bastarrachea, F; Bastarrachea, F; Bastarrachea; Covarrubias, A A; Covarrubias, AA; Covarrubias	J Bacteriol
2892830	Introduction of the Escherichia coli gdhA gene into Rhizobium phaseoli: effect on nitrogen fixation.	Rhizobium phaseoli lacks glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) and assimilates ammonium by the glutamine synthetase-glutamate synthase pathway. A strain of R. phaseoli harboring the Escherichia coli GDH structural gene (gdhA) was constructed. GDH activity was expressed in R. phaseoli in the free-living state and in symbiosis. Nodules with bacteroids that expressed GDH activity had severe impairment of nitrogen fixation. Also, R. phaseoli cells that lost GDH activity and assimilated ammonium by the glutamine synthetase-glutamate synthase pathway preferentially nodulated Phaseolus vulgaris.	1988 Feb	Bravo, A; Bravo, A; Bravo; Becerril, B; Becerril, B; Becerril; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
3343217	Genomic instability in Rhizobium phaseoli.	Experience from different laboratories indicates that Rhizobium strains can generate variability in regard to some phenotypic characteristics such as colony morphology or symbiotic properties. On the other hand, several reports suggest that under certain stress conditions or genetic manipulations Rhizobium cells can present genomic rearrangements. In search of frequent genomic rearrangements, we analyzed three Rhizobium strains under laboratory conditions that are not considered to cause stress in bacterial populations. DNAs from direct descendants of a single cell were analyzed in regard to the hybridization patterns obtained, using as probes different recombinant plasmids or cosmids; while most of the probes utilized did not show differences in the hybridization patterns, some of them revealed the occurrence of frequent genomic rearrangements. The implications and possible biological significance of these observations are discussed.	1988 Mar	Flores, M; Flores, M; Flores; González, V; González, V; González; Pardo, M A; Pardo, MA; Pardo; Leija, A; Leija, A; Leija; Martínez, E; Martínez, E; Martínez; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Piñero, D; Piñero, D; Piñero; Dávila, G; Dávila, G; Dávila; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios	J Bacteriol
2959749	Regulation of carbon and nitrogen flow by glutamate synthase in Neurospora crassa.	A glycine-resistant Neurospora crassa mutant (am-132;glyr), derived from the am-132 mutant, was isolated and characterized. [am-132 itself has a deletion in the structural gene for NADP-dependent glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH).] This new mutation also conferred resistance to serine and methionine sulphoximine (MS), which are inhibitors of glutamine synthetase (GS). In addition, the mutant obtained grew better on ammonium than the am-132 parental strain. Resistance to glycine was not due to increased synthesis of glutamine by an altered or induced GS, nor to increased glutamate synthesis by induction of the catabolic NAD-dependent GDH, nor to NADH-dependent glutamate synthase (GOGAT), which was as sensitive to inhibitors as the GOGAT from the parental strain. The glycine-resistance mutation lowered but did not abolish the carbon flow; this resulted in a lower content of tricarboxylic acid cycle intermediates. GOGAT activity was inhibited in vitro by several organic acids and methionine sulphone (MSF). The higher growth rate of the glycine-resistant mutant on ammonium or on ammonium plus glycine, serine or MS was explained by an increased capacity of GOGAT to synthesize glutamate in vivo due to a lower content of inhibitory tricarboxylic acid cycle intermediates; the higher glutamate content overcomes the effect of the GS inhibitors and explains the MSF resistance of the mutant.	1987 Jul	Mora, Y; Mora, Y; Mora; Hernández, G; Hernández, G; Hernández; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Gen Microbiol
3450286	Reiterated DNA sequences in Rhizobium and Agrobacterium spp.	Repeated DNA sequences are a general characteristic of eucaryotic genomes. Although several examples of DNA reiteration have been found in procaryotic organisms, only in the case of the archaebacteria Halobacterium halobium and Halobacterium volcanii [C. Sapienza and W. F. Doolittle, Nature (London) 295:384-389, 1982], has DNA reiteration been reported as a common genomic feature. The genomes of two Rhizobium phaseoli strains, one Rhizobium meliloti strain, and one Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain were analyzed for the presence of repetitive DNA. Rhizobium and Agrobacterium spp. are closely related soil bacteria that interact with plants and that belong to the taxonomical family Rhizobiaceae. Rhizobium species establish a nitrogen-fixing symbiosis in the roots of legumes, whereas Agrobacterium species is a pathogen in different plants. The four strains revealed a large number of repeated DNA sequences. The family size was usually small, from 2 to 5 elements, but some presented more than 10 elements. Rhizobium and Agrobacterium spp. contain large plasmids in addition to the chromosomes. Analysis of the two Rhizobium strains indicated that DNA reiteration is not confined to the chromosome or to some plasmids but is a property of the whole genome.	1987 Dec	Flores, M; Flores, M; Flores; González, V; González, V; González; Brom, S; Brom, S; Brom; Martínez, E; Martínez, E; Martínez; Piñero, D; Piñero, D; Piñero; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Dávila, G; Dávila, G; Dávila; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios	J Bacteriol
2896226	Coordinated regulation of ammonium assimilation and carbon catabolism by glyoxylate in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The activities of citrate synthase (EC 4.1.3.7) and NADP+-dependent glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) (EC 1.4.1.4) of Saccharomyces cerevisiae were inhibited in vitro by glyoxylate. In the presence of glyoxylate, pyruvate and glyoxylate pools increased, suggesting that glyoxylate was efficiently transported and catabolized. Pyruvate accumulation also indicates that citrate synthase was inhibited. A decrease in the glutamate pool was also observed under these conditions. This can be attributed to an increased transamination rate and to the inhibitory effect of glyoxylate on NADP+-dependent GDH. Furthermore, the increase in the ammonium pool in the presence of glyoxylate suggests that NADP+-dependent GDH was being inhibited in vivo, since the activity of glutamine synthetase did not decrease under these conditions. We propose that the inhibition of both citrate synthase and NADP+-dependent GDH could form part of a mechanism that regulates the internal 2-oxoglutarate concentration.	1987 Sep	González, A; González, A; González; Rodríguez, L; Rodríguez, L; Rodríguez; Folch, J; Folch, J; Folch; Soberón, M; Soberón, M; Soberón; Olivera, H; Olivera, H; Olivera	J Gen Microbiol
16665575	Purification, cDNA Cloning, and Developmental Expression of the Nodule-Specific Uricase from Phaseolus vulgaris L.	Nodule-specific uricase (uricase II) from Phaseolus vulgaris L. was purified to homogeneity by chromatographic methods. Purification data indicated that uricase II is approximately 2% of the total soluble protein from mature nodules. Specific antiserum was raised and used to determine the developmental expression and for immunoselection of polysomes. Uricase II was antigenically detected early in nodule development, 2 to 3 days before nitrogen fixation. Uricase-encoding cDNA clones were isolated by hybridizing a nodule-specific pUC9 cDNA library with labeled mRNA from immunoselected polysomes and a 35,000 molecular weight uricase II-encoding cDNA from soybean. An homologous clone (pNF-UR07) was used to assess the expression pattern of the specific transcript during development. Northern-blot analysis indicated that uricase II mRNA is exclusively expressed in nodule tissue.	1987 Aug	Sánchez, F; Sánchez, F; Sánchez; Campos, F; Campos, F; Campos; Padilla, J; Padilla, J; Padilla; Bonneville, J M; Bonneville, JM; Bonneville; Enríquez, C; Enríquez, C; Enríquez; Caput, D; Caput, D; Caput	Plant Physiol
2889793	glnA mutations conferring resistance to methylammonium in Escherichia coli K12.	Cells of Escherichia coli K12 were sensitive to 100 mM-methylammonium when cultured under nitrogen limitation, and resistant when grown with an excess of either NH4Cl or glutamine. Glutamine synthetase activity was required for expression of the methylammonium-sensitive phenotype. Mutants were isolated which were resistant to 100 mM-methylammonium, even when grown under nitrogen limitation. P1 bacteriophage transduction and F' complementation analysis revealed that the resistance-conferring mutations mapped either inside the glnA structural gene and/or elsewhere in the E. coli chromosome. Glutamine synthetase was purified from the wild-type and from some of the mutant strains. Strains carrying glnA-linked mutations that were solely responsible for the methylammonium-resistant phenotype yielded an altered enzyme, which was less active biosynthetically with either ammonium or methylammonium as substrate. Sensitivity to methylammonium appeared to be due to synthesis of gamma-glutamylmethylamide by glutamine synthetase, which was synthesized poorly, if at all, by mutants carrying an altered glutamine synthetase enzyme.	1987 Jun	Servín-González, L; Servín-González, L; Servín-González; Ortiz, M; Ortiz, M; Ortiz; González, A; González, A; González; Bastarrachea, F; Bastarrachea, F; Bastarrachea	J Gen Microbiol
3584072	Nitrogen-fixing nodules induced by Agrobacterium tumefaciens harboring Rhizobium phaseoli plasmids.	Rhizobium phaseoli CFN299 forms nitrogen-fixing nodules in Phaseolus vulgaris (bean) and in Leucaena esculenta. It has three plasmids of 185, 225, and 410 kilobases. The 410-kilobase plasmid contains the nitrogenase structural genes. We have transferred these plasmids to the plasmid-free strain Agrobacterium tumefaciens GMI9023. Transconjugants containing different combinations of the R. phaseoli plasmids were obtained, and they were exhaustively purified before nodulation was assayed. Only transconjugants harboring the 410-kilobase plasmid nodulate P. vulgaris and L. esculenta. Nodules formed by all such transconjugants are able to reduce acetylene. Transconjugants containing the whole set of plasmids from CFN299 nodulate better and fix more nitrogen than the transconjugants carrying only the Sym plasmid. Microscopic analysis of nodules induced by A. tumefaciens transconjugants reveals infected cells and vascular bundles. None of the A. tumefaciens transconjugants, not even the one with the whole set of plasmids from CFN299, behaves in symbiosis like the original R. phaseoli strain; the transconjugants produce fewer nodules and have lower acetylene reduction (25% as compared to the original R. phaseoli strain) and more amyloplasts per nodule. More than 2,000 bacterial isolates from nodules of P. vulgaris and L. esculenta formed by the transconjugants were analyzed by different criteria. Not a single rhizobium could be detected. Our results show that R. phaseoli plasmids may be expressed in the A. tumefaciens background and direct the formation of effective, differentiated nodules.	1987 Jun	Martínez, E; Martínez, E; Martínez; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios; Sánchez, F; Sánchez, F; Sánchez	J Bacteriol
2882477	The complete nucleotide sequence of the glnALG operon of Escherichia coli K12.	The nucleotide sequence of the E. coli glnALG operon has been determined. The glnL (ntrB) and glnG (ntrC) genes present a high homology, at the nucleotide and aminoacid levels, with the corresponding genes of Klebsiella pneumoniae. The predicted aminoacid sequence for glutamine synthetase allowed us to locate some of the enzyme domains. The structure of this operon is discussed.	1987 Mar	Miranda-Ríos, J; Miranda-Ríos, J; Miranda-Ríos; Sánchez-Pescador, R; Sánchez-Pescador, R; Sánchez-Pescador; Urdea, M; Urdea, M; Urdea; Covarrubias, A A; Covarrubias, AA; Covarrubias	Nucleic Acids Res
24277190	Expression of nodule-specific genes in Phaseolus vulgaris L.	The identification of some nodule-specific host proteins (nodulins) from common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.), a tropical ureide-transporting legume, is described. Particularly, the existence and developmental expression of several abundant nodule-specific transcripts of P. vulgaris are shown, including leghemoglobin, nodulespecific uricase and a group that in vitro translates into a cluster of about 30 kDa products. The expression pattern of nodulins in effective (Fix(+)) nodules compared to ineffective (Fix(-)) ones is also presented. The modified expression of main nodulins observed between these nodules indicates that different levels and/or factors associated with their regulation are involved. The intracellular infection by Rhizobium as a decisive step in the induction of some P. vulgaris nodulins is discussed. 	1987 Nov	Campos, F; Campos, F; Campos; Padilla, J; Padilla, J; Padilla; Vázquez, M; Vázquez, M; Vázquez; Ortega, J L; Ortega, JL; Ortega; Enríquez, C; Enríquez, C; Enríquez; Sánchez, F; Sánchez, F; Sánchez	Plant Mol Biol
3309146	Glutamine degradation through the omega-amidase pathway in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	A glutamine transaminase activity has been identified in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and the existence of the omega-amidase activity previously described in this yeast has been confirmed. The glutamine transaminase utilizes different 2-oxo acids as substrates, including pyruvate and glyoxylate, and is regulated by the available nitrogen source. The glutamine transaminase activity decreases when lysine or glycine is added to the medium; the inhibition by lysine diminishes under microaerophilic culture conditions.	1987 Jan	Soberón, M; Soberón, M; Soberón; González, A; González, A; González	J Gen Microbiol
24276799	Nodule-specific glutamine synthetase is expressed before the onset of nitrogen fixation in Phaseolus vulgaris L.	Glutamine synthetase expression was studied in developing root-nodules of common bean with regard to the time-course of specific activity, antigen accumulation, polypeptide composition and in vitro translation products. This analysis shows that the nodule-specific GS polypeptide (GS-gamma) is detected prior to the nitrogenase acetylene-reducing activity, and that its accumulation together with that of the GS-alpha and GS-beta polypeptides vary with nodule age. GS-gamma is present in ineffective nodules, although in a lower ratio to GS-beta than in wild-type nodules. Comparisons of in vitro translated and in vivo synthesized GS polypeptides suggest no post-translational modifications. The possible factors and mechanisms involved in the regulation of expression of GS polypeptides are discussed. 	1987 Jan	Padilla, J E; Padilla, JE; Padilla; Campos, F; Campos, F; Campos; Conde, V; Conde, V; Conde; Lara, M; Lara, M; Lara; Sánchez, F; Sánchez, F; Sánchez	Plant Mol Biol
3309138	Physiological role of glutaminase activity in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The participation of glutaminase activity in glutamine degradation was studied in a wild-type strain (S288C) of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Evidence is presented that this strain has two glutaminase activities, a readily extractable form (glutaminase B) and a membrane-bound enzyme (glutaminase A). Glutaminase A and B activities could also be distinguished by their thermostability, pyruvate sensitivity and pH optimum. Glutaminase B activity was negatively modulated by some 2-oxo acids, and in vivo pyruvate accumulation inhibited this activity. A mutant strain (CN10) with an altered glutaminase B activity was isolated and partially characterized. Its glutaminase B activity was more sensitive to inhibition by pyruvate and 2-oxoglutarate than the wild type, thus resulting in inactivation of this enzyme in vivo. The physiological role of glutaminase activity is discussed with regard to the phenotype shown by the mutant strain.	1987 Jan	Soberón, M; Soberón, M; Soberón; González, A; González, A; González	J Gen Microbiol
3308639	Promoter selection by a bacterial enhancer-like activator element (BELE) in Escherichia coli.	The Escherichia coli glnA gene promoter glnAp2 is activated by an element able to act bidirectionally and at variable distance over the DNA. We demonstrate here that this activating element does not influence another promoter, 82p, adjacent to it, from which a gene is transcribed in opposite direction to glnA. Thus, although it displays a great flexibility, this element can activate selectively. The unresponsive promoter and glnAp2 are recognized by RNA polymerases complexed to two different sigma factors. Therefore, we argue that promoter selection by this element is dependent upon distinguishing the proper sigma factor.	1987	Garciarrubio, A A; Garciarrubio, AA; Garciarrubio; Covarrubias, A A; Covarrubias, AA; Covarrubias	Gene
3438252	Purification and characterization of a lectin from Phaseolus acutifolius var. latifolius.	The lectin from Phaseolus acutifolius var. latifolius has been purified to homogeneity by affinity chromatography using stroma-sephadex, gel filtration and electrofocusing. The purified lectin consists of four subunits of 21 Kd molecular mass each one with 7.4% w/w total carbohydrate. Red cells of human and animal species, are agglutinated but are not inhibited by a series of sugars. Mitogenicity and immunosuppressive activities were demonstrated. Agglutination requires magnesium and calcium ions.	1987	Vargas-Albores, F; Vargas-Albores, F; Vargas-Albores; de la Fuente, G; de la Fuente, G; de la Fuente; Agundis, C; Agundis, C; Agundis; Córdoba, F; Córdoba, F; Córdoba	Prep Biochem
3096961	Effect of L-amino acids on Mucor rouxii dimorphism.	Mucor rouxii organisms growing aerobically and exponentially on a well-defined minimal medium are able to differentiate as yeasts or as mycelia, depending on the amino acid as the nitrogen source. When certain amino acids were used as the nitrogen source, spores differentiated only as hyphae, whereas other amino acids gave rise to other morphological forms having different ratios of yeasts to hyphae. In both hyphal and yeast cultures, an aerobic metabolism was predominant, as shown by determining several metabolic parameters such as oxygen tension, glucose consumption, ethanol production, and CO2 release. A complete conversion of yeasts to hyphae was obtained by the appropriate change in the amino acid used as nitrogen source. By preparing spheroplasts from mycelial cultures and transferring them to media with amino acids that induce yeast formation, a 50% yield in the reverse transformation was achieved. A correlation between the change in pH of the medium and cell morphology was observed in different growth conditions. Decrease in the pH of the medium preceded the appearance of hyphae. Also, when the initial pH of the medium was increased, aspartate-containing cultures developed mainly as mycelia, instead of yeasts, with a corresponding decrease in the final pH.	1986 Nov	Leija, A; Leija, A; Leija; Ruiz-Herrera, J; Ruiz-Herrera, J; Ruiz-Herrera; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
2943726	Genetic and biochemical identification of the glutamate synthase structural gene in Neurospora crassa.	Neurospora crassa cells require glutamate synthase activity for growth under ammonium-limiting conditions. Despite the physiological importance of glutamate synthase, little is known about the genetics of its expression. To identify the glutamate synthase structural gene, we isolated three new mutants lacking this activity. All mutations are recessive to the wild-type allele and belong to the same complementation group as the previously described en(am)-2 (C24) mutation. Two lines of evidence indicate that en(am)-2 is the structural gene for glutamate synthase in N. crassa. The en(am)-2+ gene shows a gene dosage effect on enzyme activity, and some mutants lacking glutamate synthase activity have cross-reacting material. These data suggest that the mutations are located in the structural gene for N. crassa glutamate synthase.	1986 Sep	Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Dávila, G; Dávila, G; Dávila	J Bacteriol
3015875	Genetic rearrangements of a Rhizobium phaseoli symbiotic plasmid.	Different structural changes of the Sym plasmid were found in a Rhizobium phaseoli strain that loses its symbiotic phenotype at a high frequency. These rearrangements affected both nif genes and Tn5 mob insertions in the plasmid, and in some cases they modified the expression of the bacterium's nodulation ability. One of the rearrangements was more frequent in heat-treated cells, but was also found under standard culture conditions; other structural changes appeared to be related to the conjugal transfer of the plasmid.	1986 Aug	Soberón-Chávez, G; Soberón-Chávez, G; Soberón-Chávez; Nájera, R; Nájera, R; Nájera; Olivera, H; Olivera, H; Olivera; Segovia, L; Segovia, L; Segovia	J Bacteriol
2872202	Oxidation of Neurospora crassa glutamine synthetase.	The glutamine synthetase of Neurospora crassa, either purified or in cell extracts, was inactivated by ascorbate plus FeCl3 and by H2O2 plus FeSO4. The inactivation reaction was oxygen dependent, inhibited by MnCl2 and EDTA, and stimulated in cell extracts by sodium azide. This inactivation could also be brought about by adding NADPH to the cell extract. The alpha and beta polypeptides of the active glutamine synthetase were modified by these inactivating reactions, giving rise to two novel acidic polypeptides. These modifications were observed with the purified enzyme, with cell extracts, and under in vivo conditions in which glutamine synthetase is degraded. The modified glutamine synthetase was more susceptible to endogenous phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride-insensitive proteolytic activity, which was inhibited by MnCl2 and stimulated by EDTA. The possible physiological relevance of enzyme oxidation is discussed.	1986 Jun	Aguirre, J; Aguirre, J; Aguirre; Hansberg, W; Hansberg, W; Hansberg	J Bacteriol
16664719	Expression of Two Different Glutamine Synthetase Polypeptides during Root Development in Phaseolus vulgaris L.	Immunoprecipitation and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis analysis of the glutamine synthetase (GS) polypeptides (alpha and beta) during Phaseolus vulgaris root development shows that the alpha polypeptide is the main component of the enzyme in the embryo and in up to 5 day old roots. From 5 days on, the beta polypeptide becomes the root predominant GS monomer. The alpha/beta ratio of the in vitro translated GS polypeptides from the total polysomal RNA isolated at different root ages correlates with the alpha/beta ratio observed in the root extracts. These results suggest that the two root GS polypeptides are encoded by different mRNA species in Phaseolus vulgaris.	1986 Apr	Ortega, J L; Ortega, JL; Ortega; Campos, F; Campos, F; Campos; Sánchez, F; Sánchez, F; Sánchez; Lara, M; Lara, M; Lara	Plant Physiol
2867084	Regulation of glutamine synthesis by glycine and serine in Neurospora crassa.	The biosynthetic activities of the polypeptide subunits alpha and beta of glutamine synthetase (GS) were inhibited in vitro by glycine and serine. These amino acids inhibited the growth of a mutant strain with partial GS activity when grown on glutamate as the nitrogen source and also blocked the synthesis of the glutamine in vivo, thus demonstrating the inhibitory effect on GS activity in vivo. Glycine and serine lowered the intracellular glutamine pool and regulated GS beta synthesis. A preferential induction of synthesis of the GS beta polypeptide was observed when either of these amino acids was present in the medium. On this basis, we obtained a glycine-sensitive mutant which showed a structural alteration of the GS beta polypeptide. The double regulatory effect of either glycine or serine on glutamine synthesis may be considered an example of the regulation of glutamine synthesis by alpha-amino nitrogen. It may be a mechanism that regulates the assimilation of ammonium into glutamate versus glutamine.	1986 Jan	Hernández, G; Hernández, G; Hernández; Mora, Y; Mora, Y; Mora; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
2866224	NADP+-dependent glutamate dehydrogenase activity is impaired in mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae that lack aconitase.	A mutant of Saccharomyces cerevisiae lacking aconitase did not grow on minimal medium (MM) and had five- to tenfold less NADP+-dependent glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) activity than the wild-type, although its glutamine synthetase (GS) activity was still inducible. When this mutant was incubated with glutamate as the sole nitrogen source, the 2-oxoglutarate content rose, and the NADP+-dependent GDH activity increased. Furthermore, carbon-limited cultures showed a direct relation between NADP+-dependent GDH activity and the intracellular 2-oxoglutarate content. We propose that the low NADP+-dependent GDH activity found in the mutant was due to the lack of 2-oxoglutarate or some other intermediate of the tricarboxylic acid cycle.	1985 Oct	González, A; González, A; González; Rodríguez, L; Rodríguez, L; Rodríguez; Olivera, H; Olivera, H; Olivera; Soberón, M; Soberón, M; Soberón	J Gen Microbiol
2857167	Omega-amidase pathway in the degradation of glutamine in Neurospora crassa.	Evidence for the participation of the glutamine transaminase-omega-amidase pathway in the utilization of glutamine in Neurospora crassa was obtained. Its participation is indicated by the in vitro activities of glutamine transaminase and omega-amidase, the in vivo accumulation of alpha-ketoglutaramate when an inhibitor of transamidases is present, and the inhibition by aminooxyacetic acid and 6-diazo-5-oxo-L-norleucine of the ammonium excreted in the presence of glutamine by a mutant strain that lacks glutamate dehydrogenase and glutamate synthase.	1985 Feb	Calderón, J; Calderón, J; Calderón; Morett, E; Morett, E; Morett; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
16593543	Nitrogenase reductase: A functional multigene family in Rhizobium phaseoli.	The complete coding sequence of the nitrogenase reductase gene (nifH) is present in three different regions of a Rhizobium phaseoli symbiotic plasmid. Homology between two of the regions containing nifH coding sequences extends over 5 kilobases. These in turn share 1.3 kilobases of homology with the third region. The nucleotide sequences of the three nitrogenase reductase genes were found to be identical. Site-directed insertion mutagenesis indicated that none of the three genes is indispensable for nitrogen fixation during symbiosis with Phaseolus vulgaris. This implies that at least two of the reiterated genes can be functionally expressed.	1985 Feb	Quinto, C; Quinto, C; Quinto; De La Vega, H; De La Vega, H; De La Vega; Flores, M; Flores, M; Flores; Leemans, J; Leemans, J; Leemans; Cevallos, M A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Pardo, M A; Pardo, MA; Pardo; Azpiroz, R; Azpiroz, R; Azpiroz; De Lourdes Girard, M; De Lourdes Girard, M; De Lourdes Girard; Calva, E; Calva, E; Calva; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
2866146	Cloning of a DNA sequence that complements glutamine auxotrophy in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Glutamine (gln) requiring mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae have been isolated. They synthesize small amounts of glutamine synthetase (GS), which is more thermolabile than the enzyme from the parental strain. The gln auxotrophy was complemented in transformation experiments using an S. cerevisiae gene library constructed in the plasmid vector YEp13. The transformants were mitotically unstable and synthesized almost tenfold higher amounts of GS than wild-type cells. This activity was as thermoresistant as that from the wild-type strain. A recombinant plasmid was isolated from one of the transformants and partially mapped. Upon reintroduction into the auxotrophic strain, the transformation frequency to gln prototrophy was the same as that for the marker LEU2 gene. The evidence presented suggests that we have cloned the structural gene for GS from S. cerevisiae.	1985	González, A; González, A; González; Dávila, G; Dávila, G; Dávila; Calva, E; Calva, E; Calva	Gene
2866175	Glutamine synthetase-constitutive mutation affecting the glnALG upstream promoter of Escherichia coli.	The spontaneous gln-76 mutation of Escherichia coli (Osorio et al., Mol. Gen. Genet. 194:114-123, 1984) was previously shown to be responsible for the cis-dominant constitutive expression of the glnA gene in the absence of a glnG-glnF activator system. Nucleotide sequence analysis has now revealed that gln-76 is a single transversion T.A to A.T, an up-promoter mutation affecting the -10 region of glnAp1, the upstream promoter of the glnALG control region. Both, wild-type and gln-76 DNA control regions were cloned into the promoter-probe plasmid pKO1. Galactokinase activity determinations of cells carrying the fused plasmids showed 10-fold more effective expression mediated by gln-76 than by the glnA wild-type control region. Primer extension experiments with RNA from strains carrying the gln-76 control region indicated that the transcription initiation sites were the same in both the gln-76 mutant and the wild type.	1985 Dec	León, P; León, P; León; Romero, D; Romero, D; Romero; Garciarrubio, A; Garciarrubio, A; Garciarrubio; Bastarrachea, F; Bastarrachea, F; Bastarrachea; Covarrubias, A A; Covarrubias, AA; Covarrubias	J Bacteriol
2865194	Nucleotide sequence of the glnA-glnL intercistronic region of Escherichia coli.	The nucleotide (nt) sequence of a 682-bp fragment containing the 3' end of the glnA gene, the region between the glnA and glnL genes, and the 5' end of the glnL gene from Escherichia coli was determined. This segment contains the region coding for the last 107 amino acids (aa) of glutamine synthetase, including the adenylylation site of this enzyme. The analysis of this sequence revealed two REP sequences, a Rho-independent terminator, the putative glnL promoter and the possible binding site for the glnG product, NRI.	1985	Rocha, M; Rocha, M; Rocha; Vázquez, M; Vázquez, M; Vázquez; Garciarrubio, A; Garciarrubio, A; Garciarrubio; Covarrubias, A A; Covarrubias, AA; Covarrubias	Gene
16663942	Heterogeneity of Glutamine Synthetase Polypeptides in Phaseolus vulgaris L.	Glutamine synthetases from roots, nodules, and leaves of Phaseolus vulgaris L. have been purified to homogeneity and their polypeptide composition determined.The leaf enzyme is composed of six polypeptides. The cytosolic fraction contains two 43,000 dalton polypeptides and the chloroplastic enzyme is formed by four 45,000 dalton polypeptides. Root glutamine synthetase consists only of the same two polypeptides of 43,000 dalton that are present in the leaf enzyme. The nodule enzyme is formed by two polypeptides of 43,000 dalton, one is common to the leaf and root enzyme but the other is specific for N(2)-fixing nodule tissue. The two glutamine synthetase forms of the nodule contain a different proportion of the 43,000 dalton polypeptides.	1984 Dec	Lara, M; Lara, M; Lara; Porta, H; Porta, H; Porta; Padilla, J; Padilla, J; Padilla; Folch, J; Folch, J; Folch; Sánchez, F; Sánchez, F; Sánchez	Plant Physiol
6325385	Rhizobium phaseoli symbiotic mutants with transposon Tn5 insertions.	Rhizobium phaseoli CFN42 DNA was mutated by random insertion of Tn5 from suicide plasmid pJB4JI to obtain independently arising strains that were defective in symbiosis with Phaseolus vulgaris but grew normally outside the plant. When these mutants were incubated with the plant, one did not initiate visible nodule tissue (Nod-), seven led to slow nodule development (Ndv), and two led to superficially normal early nodule development but lacked symbiotic nitrogenase activity (Sna-). The Nod- mutant lacked the large transmissible indigenous plasmid pCFN42d that has homology to Klebsiella pneumoniae nitrogenase (nif) genes. The other mutants had normal plasmid content. In the two Sna- mutants and one Ndv mutant, Tn5 had inserted into plasmid pCFN42d outside the region of nif homology. The insertions of the other Ndv mutants were apparently in the chromosome. They were not in plasmids detected on agarose gels, and, in contrast to insertions on indigenous plasmids, they were transmitted in crosses to wild-type strain CFN42 at the same frequency as auxotrophic markers and with the same enhancement of transmission by conjugation plasmid R68.45. In these Ndv mutants the Tn5 insertions were the same as or very closely linked to mutations causing the Ndv phenotype. However, in two mutants with Tn5 insertions on plasmid pCFN42d, an additional mutation on the same plasmid, rather than Tn5, was responsible for the Sna- or Ndv phenotype. When plasmid pJB4JI was transferred to two other R. phaseoli strains, analysis of symbiotic mutants was complicated by Tn5-containing deleted forms of pJB4JI that were stably maintained.	1984 Apr	Noel, K D; Noel, KD; Noel; Sanchez, A; Sanchez, A; Sanchez; Fernandez, L; Fernandez, L; Fernandez; Leemans, J; Leemans, J; Leemans; Cevallos, M A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos	J Bacteriol
6743792	A generalized reaction diffusion model for spatial structure formed by motile cells.	A non-linear stability analysis using a multi-scale perturbation procedure is carried out on a model of a generalized reaction diffusion mechanism which involves only a single equation but which nevertheless exhibits bifurcation to non-uniform states. The patterns generated by this model by variation in a parameter related to the scalar dimensions of domain of definition, indicate its capacity to represent certain key morphogenetic features of multicellular systems formed by motile cells.	1984	Ochoa, F L; Ochoa, FL; Ochoa	Biosystems
22096811	Glutamine requirement for aerial mycelium growth in Neurospora crassa.	Five amino acids are accumulated during vegetative growth of Neurospora crassa, particularly.during the prestationary growth phase. Alanine, glutamine, glutamate, arginine and ornithine.comprised over 80% of the total amino acid pool in the mycelium. Amino acid pools of different amino acid auxotrophs were followed during the partial transformation of a mycelial mat into an aerial mycelium. The mycelial mat under starvation and in direct contact with air rapidly formed aerial mycelium, which produced thereafter a burst of conidia. During this process,glutamine and alanine in the mycelial mat were consumed more rapidly than other amino acids;in the growing aerial mycelium, glutamate and glutamine were particularly accumulated. Of the amino acids that were initially accumulated in the mycelial mat, only a high glutamine pool was required for aerial mycelium growth induced by starvation. This requirement for glutamine could not be satisfied by a mixture of the amino compounds that are synthesized via glutamine amidotransferase reactions. It is proposed that glutamine serves as a nitrogen carrier from the mycelial mat to the growing aerial mycelium.	1984 Jul	Cárdenas, M E; Cárdenas, ME; Cárdenas; Hansberg, W; Hansberg, W; Hansberg	J Gen Microbiol
22096812	Glutamine metabolism during aerial mycelium growth of Neurospora crassa.	During vegetative growth, glutamine is accumulated in the mycelium of Neurospora crassa. This high pool of glutamine seems to be required for aerial mycelium growth. Enzymes responsible for the synthesis and catabolism of glutamine were measured before and during the partial transformation of a mycelial mat into aerial mycelium. In the transforming mycelial mat,considerable activities of the biosynthetic NADP-glutamate dehydrogenase and glutamine synthetase (predominantly β polypeptide) and also some activity of glutamate synthase were observed. In the aerial mycelium, glutamine synthetase (predominantly β polypeptide) was detected, but very low activities of NADP-glutamate dehydrogenase and glutamate mycelium could derive from glutamine. No glutaminase activity could be detected. It is suggested that glutamate is formed through the activities of the glutamine transaminase-ω -amidase pathway and another transaminase. High activities of glutamine and alanine transaminases were observed in the aerial mycelium. These results are discussed in terms of the possible role of glutamine as a nitrogen carrier from the mycelium to the growing aerial hyphae.	1984 Jul	Cárdenas, M E; Cárdenas, ME; Cárdenas; Hansberg, W; Hansberg, W; Hansberg	J Gen Microbiol
6139363	Genetic and biochemical characterization of glutamine synthetase from Neurospora crassa glutamine auxotrophs and their revertants.	In this paper we present the isolation and characterization of glutamine auxotrophs of Neurospora crassa and their revertants. The results show that although various enrichment procedures were used, we found only two types of auxotrophs. Genetic crosses performed between the different mutants showed that the mutations responsible for their phenotypes were highly linked and probably affected the same gene. The biochemical characterization of the glutamine synthetase polypeptides of the different mutants showed that both types contained the alpha monomer. However, in place of the normal beta monomer, each type had a new polypeptide differing from normal beta either in its molecular weight or in its isoelectric point. On the other hand, the revertants had only the alpha monomer and were capable of growing without glutamine. On the basis of these data, we propose that the lack of glutamine synthetase activity in the auxotrophs is due to the interaction of the altered beta with the alpha monomer, and as a consequence the alpha monomer of the revertants regains its activity because of the absence of the altered beta.	1983 Dec	Dávila, G; Dávila, G; Dávila; Brom, S; Brom, S; Brom; Mora, Y; Mora, Y; Mora; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
6134713	Neurospora crassa mutant impaired in glutamine regulation.	The final products of the catabolism of arginine that can be utilized as nitrogen sources by Neurospora crassa are ammonium, glutamic acid, and glutamine. Of these compounds, only glutamine represses arginase and glutamine synthetase. We report here the isolation and characterization of a mutant of N. crassa whose arginase, glutamine synthetase, and amino acid accumulations are resistant to glutamine repression (glnI). This mutant has a greater capacity than the wild type (glns) to accumulate most of the arginine and some of the glutamine in osmotically sensitive compartments while growing exponentially. Nonetheless, the major part of the glutamine remains soluble and metabolically available for repression. We propose that the lower repression of glutamine synthetase by glutamine in this mutant could be a necessary condition for sustaining the higher flow of nitrogen for the accumulation of amino acids observed in ammonium excess and that, if glutamine is the nitrogen signal that regulates the arginine accumulation of the vesicle, the glnr mutant has also escaped this control. Finally, in the glnr mutant, some glutamine resynthesis is necessary for arginine biosynthesis and accumulation.	1983 Jul	González, A; González, A; González; Tenorio, M; Tenorio, M; Tenorio; Vaca, G; Vaca, G; Vaca; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
6300039	Nitrogen source regulates glutamate dehydrogenase NADP synthesis in Neurospora crassa.	Neurospora crassa glutamate dehydrogenase-NADP (EC 1.3.1.3) has a higher activity when mycelium is grown on ammonium or nitrate as nitrogen source than when grown on glutamate or glutamine. Quantitative immunoelectrophoresis established that, under all conditions, enzyme activity corresponded to enzyme concentration. Isotope incorporation studies demonstrated that the nitrogen source exerts its regulation at the level of de novo enzyme synthesis.	1983 Apr	Hernández, G; Hernández, G; Hernández; Sánchez-Pescador, R; Sánchez-Pescador, R; Sánchez-Pescador; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
24264155	Appearance of a novel form of plant glutamine synthetase during nodule development in Phaseolus vulgaris L.	The activities of glutamine synthetase (GS), nitrogenase and leghaemoglobin were measured during nodule development in Phaseolus vulgaris infected with wild-type or two non-fixing (Fix(-)) mutants of Rhizobium phaseoli. The large increase in GS activity which was observed during nodulation with the wild-type rhizobial strain occurred concomitantly with the detection and increase in activity of nitrogenase and the amount of leghaemoglobin. Moreover, this increase in GS was found to be due entirely to the appearance of a novel form of the enzyme (GSn1) in the nodule. The activity of the form (GSn2) similar to the root enzyme (GSr) remained constant throughout the experiment. In nodules produced by infection with the two mutant strains of Rhizobium phaseoli (JL15 and JL19) only trace amounts of GSn1 and leghaemoglobin were detected. 	1983 Apr	Lara, M; Lara, M; Lara; Cullimore, J V; Cullimore, JV; Cullimore; Lea, P J; Lea, PJ; Lea; Miflin, B J; Miflin, BJ; Miflin; Johnston, A W; Johnston, AW; Johnston; Lamb, J W; Lamb, JW; Lamb	Planta
6120927	Physiology of ammonium assimilation in Neurospora crassa.	In Neurospora crassa the assimilation of high and low concentrations of ammonium occurs by two different pathways. When the fungi are growing exponentially on ammonium excess, this compound is fixed by a glutamic dehydrogenase and an octameric glutamine synthetase (GS). The synthesis of this GS polypeptide (beta) is regulated by the nitrogen source present in excess; being higher on glutamate, intermediate on ammonium, and lower on glutamine. When N. crassa is growing in fed-batch ammonium-limited cultures a different polypeptide of GS (alpha), arranged as a tetramer, is synthesized. In both conditions synthesis in vivo correlates with the data obtained with an in vitro translation system primed with N. crassa RNA. This different expression of alpha and beta GS polypeptides was also observed when the cultures were shifted from excess to low nitrogen, and vice versa. By agarose gel electrophoresis in the presence of methylmercury hydroxide, some separation of different mRNAs that direct the in vitro synthesis of alpha and beta GS polypeptides has been accomplished. Data are presented that establish the operation of the tetrameric alpha GS and of glutamate synthase in the assimilation of ammonium in low concentration.	1982 Apr	Lara, M; Lara, M; Lara; Blanco, L; Blanco, L; Blanco; Campomanes, M; Campomanes, M; Campomanes; Calva, E; Calva, E; Calva; Palacios, R; Palacios, R; Palacios; Mora, J; Mora, J; Mora	J Bacteriol
6247284	Different polypeptide composition of two human rotavirus types.	Human rotaviruses, which are placed into two groups according to their ribonucleic acid patterns obtained by gel electrophoresis, were characterized both by polypeptide components from purified virions and by polypeptides translated from their denatured ribonucleic acids in rabbit reticulocyte lysates. Viruses assigned to different groups differed in the electrophoretic migration of the second largest of the polypeptides which compose the inner shell; polypeptides that had been synthetized in vitro from ribonucleic acid from each group showed this same difference, thus indicating that this is due to the genomic composition. This study suggests that there are differences in the third largest polypeptide of the inner shell and also in the three smaller polypeptides composing the outer shell. We also demonstrated that there are differences in genomic and polypeptide compositions between simian (SA11) and calf (Nebraska calf diarrhea virus) rotaviruses grown in tissue culture and human rotaviruses.	1980 Apr	Espejo, R; Espejo, R; Espejo; Martínez, E; Martínez, E; Martínez; López, S; López, S; López; Muñoz, O; Muñoz, O; Muñoz	Infect Immun
34791964	Protein lysine acetylation and its role in different human pathologies: a proteomic approach.	Lysine acetylation is a reversible post-translational modification (PTM) regulated through the action of specific types of enzymes: lysine acetyltransferases (KATs) and lysine deacetylases (HDACs), in addition to bromodomains, which are a group of conserved domains which identify acetylated lysine residues, several of the players in the process of protein acetylation, including enzymes and bromodomain-containing proteins, have been related to the progression of several diseases. The combination of high-resolution mass spectrometry-based proteomics, and immunoprecipitation to enrich acetylated peptides has contributed in recent years to expand the knowledge about this PTM described initially in histones and nuclear proteins, and is currently reported in more than 5000 human proteins, that are regulated by this PTM.	2021 Nov	Morales-Tarré, Orlando; Morales-Tarré, O; Morales-Tarré; Alonso-Bastida, Ramiro; Alonso-Bastida, R; Alonso-Bastida; Arcos-Encarnación, Bolivar; Arcos-Encarnación, B; Arcos-Encarnación; Pérez-Martínez, Leonor; Pérez-Martínez, L; Pérez-Martínez; Encarnación-Guevara, Sergio; Encarnación-Guevara, S; Encarnación-Guevara	Expert Rev Proteomics
34858375	Introducing a Novel, Broad Host Range Temperate Phage Family Infecting <i>Rhizobium leguminosarum</i> and Beyond.	Temperate phages play important roles in bacterial communities but have been largely overlooked, particularly in non-pathogenic bacteria. In rhizobia the presence of temperate phages has the potential to have significant ecological impacts but few examples have been described. Here we characterize a novel group of 5 <i>Rhizobium leguminosarum</i> prophages, capable of sustaining infections across a broad host range within their host genus. Genome comparisons identified further putative prophages infecting multiple <i>Rhizobium</i> species isolated globally, revealing a wider family of 10 temperate phages including one previously described lytic phage, RHEph01, which appears to have lost the ability to form lysogens. Phylogenetic discordance between prophage and host phylogenies suggests a history of active mobilization between <i>Rhizobium</i> lineages. Genome comparisons revealed conservation of gene content and order, with the notable exception of an approximately 5 kb region of hypervariability, containing almost exclusively hypothetical genes. Additionally, several horizontally acquired genes are present across the group, including a putative antirepressor present only in the RHEph01 genome, which may explain its apparent inability to form lysogens. In summary, both phenotypic and genomic comparisons between members of this group of phages reveals a clade of viruses with a long history of mobilization within and between <i>Rhizobium</i> species.	2021	Ford, Sam; Ford, S; Ford; Moeskjær, Sara; Moeskjær, S; Moeskjær; Young, Peter; Young, P; Young; Santamaría, Rosa I; Santamaría, RI; Santamaría; Harrison, Ellie; Harrison, E; Harrison	Front Microbiol
34803935	Mathematical Models of Plasmid Population Dynamics.	With plasmid-mediated antibiotic resistance thriving and threatening to become a serious public health problem, it is paramount to increase our understanding of the forces that enable the spread and maintenance of drug resistance genes encoded in mobile genetic elements. The relevance of plasmids as vehicles for the dissemination of antibiotic resistance genes, in addition to the extensive use of plasmid-derived vectors for biotechnological and industrial purposes, has promoted the in-depth study of the molecular mechanisms controlling multiple aspects of a plasmids' life cycle. This body of experimental work has been paralleled by the development of a wealth of mathematical models aimed at understanding the interplay between transmission, replication, and segregation, as well as their consequences in the ecological and evolutionary dynamics of plasmid-bearing bacterial populations. In this review, we discuss theoretical models of plasmid dynamics that span from the molecular mechanisms of plasmid partition and copy-number control occurring at a cellular level, to their consequences in the population dynamics of complex microbial communities. We conclude by discussing future directions for this exciting research topic.	2021	Hernández-Beltrán, José Carlos Ramón; Hernández-Beltrán, JCR; Hernández-Beltrán; San Millán, Alvaro; San Millán, A; San Millán; Fuentes-Hernández, Ayari; Fuentes-Hernández, A; Fuentes-Hernández; Peña-Miller, Rafael; Peña-Miller, R; Peña-Miller	Front Microbiol
34610117	Plant-microbe-microbe interactions influence the faba bean nodule colonization by diverse endophytic bacteria.	Legume root nodules harbor rhizobia and other non-nodulating endophytes known as nodule-associated bacteria (NAB) whose role in the legume symbiosis is still unknown. We analysed the genetic diversity of 34 NAB isolates obtained from the root nodules of faba bean grown under various soil conditions in Egypt using 16S rRNA and concatenated sequences of three housekeeping genes. All isolates were identified as members of the family Enterobacteriaceae belonging to the genera Klebsiella, Enterobacter and Raoultella. We identified nine enterobacterial genospecies, most of which have not been previously reported as NAB. All isolated strains harbored nifH gene sequences and most of them possessed plant growth-promoting (PGP) traits. Upon co-inoculation with an N2 fixing rhizobium (Rlv NGB-FR128), two strains (Enterobacter sichanensis NGB-FR97 and Klebsiella variicola NGB-FR116) significantly increased nodulation, growth and N-uptake of faba bean plants over the single treatments or the uninoculated control. The presence of these enterobacteria in nodules was significantly affected by the host plant genotype, symbiotic rhizobium genotype and endophyte genotype, indicating that the nodule colonization process is regulated by plant-microbe-microbe interactions. This study emphasizes the importance of nodule-associated enterobacteria and suggests their potential role in improving the effectiveness of rhizobial inoculants.	2021 10	Youseif, Sameh H; Youseif, SH; Youseif; Abd El-Megeed, Fayrouz H; Abd El-Megeed, FH; Abd El-Megeed; Abdelaal, Ali S; Abdelaal, AS; Abdelaal; Ageez, Amr; Ageez, A; Ageez; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	FEMS Microbiol Ecol
34777287	Transcriptomic Responses of <i>Rhizobium phaseoli</i> to Root Exudates Reflect Its Capacity to Colonize Maize and Common Bean in an Intercropping System.	Corn and common bean have been cultivated together in Mesoamerica for thousands of years in an intercropping system called "milpa," where the roots are intermingled, favoring the exchange of their microbiota, including symbionts such as rhizobia. In this work, we studied the genomic expression of <i>Rhizobium phaseoli</i> Ch24-10 (by RNA-seq) after a 2-h treatment in the presence of root exudates of maize and bean grown in monoculture and milpa system under hydroponic conditions. In bean exudates, rhizobial genes for nodulation and degradation of aromatic compounds were induced; while in maize, a response of genes for degradation of mucilage and ferulic acid was observed, as well as those for the transport of sugars, dicarboxylic acids and iron. Ch24-10 transcriptomes in milpa resembled those of beans because they both showed high expression of nodulation genes; some genes that were expressed in corn exudates were also induced by the intercropping system, especially those for the degradation of ferulic acid and pectin. Beans grown in milpa system formed nitrogen-fixing nodules similar to monocultured beans; therefore, the presence of maize did not interfere with <i>Rhizobium</i>-bean symbiosis. Genes for the metabolism of sugars and amino acids, flavonoid and phytoalexin tolerance, and a T3SS were expressed in both monocultures and milpa system, which reveals the adaptive capacity of rhizobia to colonize both legumes and cereals. Transcriptional fusions of the <i>putA</i> gene, which participates in proline metabolism, and of a gene encoding a polygalacturonase were used to validate their participation in plant-microbe interactions. We determined the enzymatic activity of carbonic anhydrase whose gene was also overexpressed in response to root exudates.	2021	Aguirre-Noyola, José Luis; Aguirre-Noyola, JL; Aguirre-Noyola; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Santiago-Martínez, Michel Geovanni; Santiago-Martínez, MG; Santiago-Martínez; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero	Front Microbiol
34745182	CdgC, a Cyclic-di-GMP Diguanylate Cyclase of <i>Azospirillum baldaniorum</i> Is Involved in Internalization to Wheat Roots.	<i>Azospirillum baldaniorum</i> is a plant growth-promoting rhizobacterium (PGPR) capable of fixing nitrogen, the synthesis of several phytohormones including indole-acetic acid, and induction of plant defenses against phytopathogens. To establish a successful and prolonged bacteria-plant interaction, <i>A. baldaniorum</i> can form biofilms, bacterial communities embedded in a self-made matrix formed by extracellular polymeric substances which provide favorable conditions for survival. A key modulator of biofilm formation is the second messenger bis-(3'-5')-cyclic-dimeric-GMP (c-di-GMP), which is synthesized by diguanylate cyclases (DGC) and degraded by specific phosphodiesterases. In this study, we analyzed the contribution of a previously uncharacterized diguanylate cyclase designated CdgC, to biofilm formation and bacterial-plant interaction dynamics. We showed that CdgC is capable of altering c-di-GMP levels in a heterologous host, strongly supporting its function as a DGC. The deletion of <i>cdgC</i> resulted in alterations in the three-dimensional structure of biofilms in a nitrogen-source dependent manner. CdgC was required for optimal colonization of wheat roots. Since we also observed that CdgC played an important role in exopolysaccharide production, we propose that this signaling protein activates a physiological response that results in the strong attachment of bacteria to the roots, ultimately contributing to an optimal bacterium-plant interaction. Our results demonstrate that the ubiquitous second messenger c-di-GMP is a key factor in promoting plant colonization by the PGPR <i>A. baldaniorum</i> by allowing proficient internalization in wheat roots. Understanding the molecular basis of PGPR-plant interactions will enable the design of better biotechnological strategies of agro-industrial interest.	2021	Sierra Cacho, Daniel; Sierra Cacho, D; Sierra Cacho; Zamorano Sánchez, David S; Zamorano Sánchez, DS; Zamorano Sánchez; Xiqui-Vázquez, Maria Luisa; Xiqui-Vázquez, ML; Xiqui-Vázquez; Viruega Góngora, Víctor Iván; Viruega Góngora, VI; Viruega Góngora; Ramírez-Mata, Alberto; Ramírez-Mata, A; Ramírez-Mata; Baca, Beatriz E; Baca, BE; Baca	Front Plant Sci
34626346	Exploring the environmental traits and applications of Klebsiella variicola.	Klebsiella variicola has been found in various natural niches, alone or in association with other bacteria, and causes diseases in animals and plants with important economic and environmental impacts. K. variicola has the capacity to fix nitrogen in the rhizosphere and soil; produces indole acetic acid, acetoin, and ammonia; and dissolves phosphorus and potassium, which play an important role in plant growth promotion and nutrition. Some members of K. variicola have properties such as halotolerance and alkalotolerance, conferring an evolutionary advantage. In the environmental protection, K. variicola can be used in the wastewater treatment, biodegradation, and bioremediation of polluted soil, either alone or in association with other organisms. In addition, it has the potential to carry out industrial processes in the food and pharmaceutical industries, like the production of maltose and glucose by the catalysis of debranching unmodified oligosaccharides by the pullulanase enzyme. Finally, this bacterium has the ability to transform chemical energy into electrical energy, such as a biocatalyst, which could be useful in the near future. These properties show that K. variicola should be considered an eco-friendly bacterium with hopeful technological promise. In this review, we explore the most significant aspects of K. variicola and highlight its potential applications in environmental and biotechnological processes.	2021 Dec	Duran-Bedolla, Josefina; Duran-Bedolla, J; Duran-Bedolla; Garza-Ramos, Ulises; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos; Rodríguez-Medina, Nadia; Rodríguez-Medina, N; Rodríguez-Medina; Aguilar Vera, Alejandro; Aguilar Vera, A; Aguilar Vera; Barrios-Camacho, Humberto; Barrios-Camacho, H; Barrios-Camacho	Braz J Microbiol
34043790	Inferring Genome-Wide Correlations of Mutation Fitness Effects between Populations.	The effect of a mutation on fitness may differ between populations depending on environmental and genetic context, but little is known about the factors that underlie such differences. To quantify genome-wide correlations in mutation fitness effects, we developed a novel concept called a joint distribution of fitness effects (DFE) between populations. We then proposed a new statistic w to measure the DFE correlation between populations. Using simulation, we showed that inferring the DFE correlation from the joint allele frequency spectrum is statistically precise and robust. Using population genomic data, we inferred DFE correlations of populations in humans, Drosophila melanogaster, and wild tomatoes. In these species, we found that the overall correlation of the joint DFE was inversely related to genetic differentiation. In humans and D. melanogaster, deleterious mutations had a lower DFE correlation than tolerated mutations, indicating a complex joint DFE. Altogether, the DFE correlation can be reliably inferred, and it offers extensive insight into the genetics of population divergence.	2021 Sep	Huang, Xin; Huang, X; Huang; Fortier, Alyssa Lyn; Fortier, AL; Fortier; Coffman, Alec J; Coffman, AJ; Coffman; Struck, Travis J; Struck, TJ; Struck; Irby, Megan N; Irby, MN; Irby; James, Jennifer E; James, JE; James; León-Burguete, José E; León-Burguete, JE; León-Burguete; Ragsdale, Aaron P; Ragsdale, AP; Ragsdale; Gutenkunst, Ryan N; Gutenkunst, RN; Gutenkunst	Mol Biol Evol
34189708	Pseudocrossidium replicatum (Taylor) R.H. Zander is a fully desiccation-tolerant moss that expresses an inducible molecular mechanism in response to severe abiotic stress.	The moss Pseudocrossidium replicatum is a desiccation-tolerant species that uses an inducible system to withstand severe abiotic stress in both protonemal and gametophore tissues. Desiccation tolerance (DT) is the ability of cells to recover from an air-dried state. Here, the moss Pseudocrossidium replicatum was identified as a fully desiccation-tolerant (FDT) species. Its gametophores rapidly lost more than 90% of their water content when exposed to a low-humidity atmosphere [23% relative humidity (RH)], but abscisic acid (ABA) pretreatment diminished the final water loss after equilibrium was reached. P. replicatum gametophores maintained good maximum photosystem II (PSII) efficiency (Fv/Fm) for up to two hours during slow dehydration; however, ABA pretreatment induced a faster decrease in the Fv/Fm. ABA also induced a faster recovery of the Fv/Fm after rehydration. Protein synthesis inhibitor treatment before dehydration hampered the recovery of the Fv/Fm when the gametophores were rehydrated after desiccation, suggesting the presence of an inducible protective mechanism that is activated in response to abiotic stress. This observation was also supported by accumulation of soluble sugars in gametophores exposed to ABA or NaCl. Exogenous ABA treatment delayed the germination of P. replicatum spores and induced morphological changes in protonemal cells that resembled brachycytes. Transcriptome analyses revealed the presence of an inducible molecular mechanism in P. replicatum protonemata that was activated in response to dehydration. This study is the first RNA-Seq study of the protonemal tissues of an FDT moss. Our results suggest that P. replicatum is an FDT moss equipped with an inducible molecular response that prepares this species for severe abiotic stress and that ABA plays an important role in this response.	2021 Nov	Ríos-Meléndez, Selma; Ríos-Meléndez, S; Ríos-Meléndez; Valadez-Hernández, Emmanuel; Valadez-Hernández, E; Valadez-Hernández; Delgadillo, Claudio; Delgadillo, C; Delgadillo; Luna-Guevara, Maria L; Luna-Guevara, ML; Luna-Guevara; Martínez-Núñez, Mario A; Martínez-Núñez, MA; Martínez-Núñez; Sánchez-Pérez, Mishael; Sánchez-Pérez, M; Sánchez-Pérez; Martínez-Y-Pérez, José L; Martínez-Y-Pérez, JL; Martínez-Y-Pérez; Arroyo-Becerra, Analilia; Arroyo-Becerra, A; Arroyo-Becerra; Cárdenas, Luis; Cárdenas, L; Cárdenas; Bibbins-Martínez, Martha; Bibbins-Martínez, M; Bibbins-Martínez; Maldonado-Mendoza, Ignacio E; Maldonado-Mendoza, IE; Maldonado-Mendoza; Villalobos-López, Miguel Angel; Villalobos-López, MA; Villalobos-López	Plant Mol Biol
33391198	A <i>Klebsiella variicola</i> Plasmid Confers Hypermucoviscosity-Like Phenotype and Alters Capsule Production and Virulence.	Hypermucoviscosity (hmv) is a capsule-associated phenotype usually linked with hypervirulent <i>Klebsiella pneumoniae</i> strains. The key components of this phenotype are the RmpADC proteins contained in non-transmissible plasmids identified and studied in <i>K. pneumoniae</i>. <i>Klebsiella variicola</i> is closely related to <i>K. pneumoniae</i> and recently has been identified as an emergent human pathogen. <i>K. variicol</i>a normally contains plasmids, some of them carrying antibiotic resistance and virulence genes. Previously, we described a <i>K. variicola</i> clinical isolate showing an hmv-like phenotype that harbors a 343-kb pKV8917 plasmid. Here, we investigated whether pKV8917 plasmid carried by <i>K. variicola</i> 8917 is linked with the hmv-like phenotype and its contribution to virulence. We found that curing the 343-kb pKV8917 plasmid caused the loss of hmv, a reduction in capsular polysaccharide (<i>P</i> < 0.001) and virulence. In addition, pKV8917 was successfully transferred to <i>Escherichia coli</i> and <i>K. variicola</i> strains via conjugation. Notably, when pKV8917 was transferred to <i>K. variicola</i>, the transconjugants displayed an hmv-like phenotype, and capsule production and virulence increased; these phenotypes were not observed in the <i>E. coli</i> transconjugants. These data suggest that the pKV8917 plasmid carries novel hmv and capsule determinants. Whole-plasmid sequencing and analysis revealed that pKV8917 does not contain <i>rmpADC</i>/<i>rmpA2</i> genes; thus, an alternative mechanism was searched. The 343-kb plasmid contains an IncFIB backbone and shares a region of ∼150 kb with a 99% identity and 49% coverage with a virulence plasmid from hypervirulent <i>K. variicola</i> and multidrug-resistant <i>K. pneumoniae</i>. The pKV8917-unique region harbors a cellulose biosynthesis cluster (<i>bcs</i>), fructose- and sucrose-specific (<i>fru/scr</i>) phosphotransferase systems, and the transcriptional regulators <i>araC</i> and <i>iclR</i>, respectively, involved in membrane permeability. The hmv-like phenotype has been identified more frequently, and recent evidence supports the existence of <i>rmpADC</i>/<i>rmpA2</i>-independent hmv-like pathways in this bacterial genus.	2020	Rodríguez-Medina, Nadia; Rodríguez-Medina, N; Rodríguez-Medina; Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; De la Cruz, Miguel Angel; De la Cruz, MA; De la Cruz; Ares, Miguel Angel; Ares, MA; Ares; Valdovinos-Torres, Humberto; Valdovinos-Torres, H; Valdovinos-Torres; Silva-Sánchez, Jesús; Silva-Sánchez, J; Silva-Sánchez; Lozano-Aguirre, Luis; Lozano-Aguirre, L; Lozano-Aguirre; Martínez-Barnetche, Jesús; Martínez-Barnetche, J; Martínez-Barnetche; Andrade, Veronica; Andrade, V; Andrade; Garza-Ramos, Ulises; Garza-Ramos, U; Garza-Ramos	Front Microbiol
33320440	We and herbivores eat endophytes.	Health depends on the diet and a vegetal diet promotes health by providing fibres, vitamins and diverse metabolites. Remarkably, plants may also provide microbes. Fungi and bacteria that reside inside plant tissues (endophytes) seem better protected to survive digestion; thus, we investigated the reported evidence on the endophytic origin of some members of the gut microbiota in animals such as panda, koala, rabbits and tortoises and several herbivore insects. Data examined here showed that some members of the herbivore gut microbiota are common plant microbes, which derived to become stable microbiota in some cases. Endophytes may contribute to plant fibre or antimetabolite degradation and synthesis of metabolites with the plethora of enzymatic activities that they display; some may have practical applications, for example, Lactobacillus plantarum found in the intestinal tract, plants and in fermented food is used as a probiotic that may defend animals against bacterial and viral infections as other endophytic-enteric bacteria do. Clostridium that is an endophyte and a gut bacterium has remarkable capabilities to degrade cellulose by having cellulosomes that may be considered the most efficient nanomachines. Cellulose degradation is a challenge in animal digestion and for biofuel production. Other endophytic-enteric bacteria may have cellulases, pectinases, xylanases, tannases, proteases, nitrogenases and other enzymatic capabilities that may be attractive for biotechnological developments, indeed many endophytes are used to promote plant growth. Here, a cycle of endophytic-enteric-soil-endophytic microbes is proposed which has relevance for health and comprises the fate of animal faeces as natural microbial inoculants for plants that constitute bacterial sources for animal guts.	2021 07	Martínez-Romero, Esperanza; Martínez-Romero, E; Martínez-Romero; Aguirre-Noyola, José Luis; Aguirre-Noyola, JL; Aguirre-Noyola; Bustamante-Brito, Rafael; Bustamante-Brito, R; Bustamante-Brito; González-Román, Pilar; González-Román, P; González-Román; Hernández-Oaxaca, Diana; Hernández-Oaxaca, D; Hernández-Oaxaca; Higareda-Alvear, Víctor; Higareda-Alvear, V; Higareda-Alvear; Montes-Carreto, Leslie M; Montes-Carreto, LM; Montes-Carreto; Martínez-Romero, Julio César; Martínez-Romero, JC; Martínez-Romero; Rosenblueth, Mónica; Rosenblueth, M; Rosenblueth; Servín-Garcidueñas, Luis Eduardo; Servín-Garcidueñas, LE; Servín-Garcidueñas	Microb Biotechnol
33260894	Haloadaptative Responses of <i>Aspergillus sydowii</i> to Extreme Water Deprivation: Morphology, Compatible Solutes, and Oxidative Stress at NaCl Saturation.	Water activity (a<sub>w</sub>) is critical for microbial growth, as it is severely restricted at a<sub>w</sub> < 0.90. Saturating NaCl concentrations (~5.0 M) induce extreme water deprivation (a<sub>w</sub> ≅ 0.75) and cellular stress responses. Halophilic fungi have cellular adaptations that enable osmotic balance and ionic/oxidative stress prevention to grow at high salinity. Here we studied the morphology, osmolyte synthesis, and oxidative stress defenses of the halophile <i>Aspergillus sydowii</i> EXF-12860 at 1.0 M and 5.13 M NaCl. Colony growth, pigmentation, exudate, and spore production were inhibited at NaCl-saturated media. Additionally, hyphae showed unpolarized growth, lower diameter, and increased septation, multicellularity and branching compared to optimal NaCl concentration. Trehalose, mannitol, arabitol, erythritol, and glycerol were produced in the presence of both 1.0 M and 5.13 M NaCl. Exposing <i>A. sydowii</i> cells to 5.13 M NaCl resulted in oxidative stress evidenced by an increase in antioxidant enzymes and lipid peroxidation biomarkers. Also, genes involved in cellular antioxidant defense systems were upregulated. This is the most comprehensive study that investigates the micromorphology and the adaptative cellular response of different non-enzymatic and enzymatic oxidative stress biomarkers in halophilic filamentous fungi.	2020 Nov	Jiménez-Gómez, Irina; Jiménez-Gómez, I; Jiménez-Gómez; Valdés-Muñoz, Gisell; Valdés-Muñoz, G; Valdés-Muñoz; Moreno-Perlin, Tonatiuh; Moreno-Perlin, T; Moreno-Perlin; Mouriño-Pérez, Rosa R; Mouriño-Pérez, RR; Mouriño-Pérez; Sánchez-Carbente, María Del Rayo; Sánchez-Carbente, MDR; Sánchez-Carbente; Folch-Mallol, Jorge Luis; Folch-Mallol, JL; Folch-Mallol; Pérez-Llano, Yordanis; Pérez-Llano, Y; Pérez-Llano; Gunde-Cimerman, Nina; Gunde-Cimerman, N; Gunde-Cimerman; Sánchez, Nilda Del C; Sánchez, NDC; Sánchez; Batista-García, Ramón Alberto; Batista-García, RA; Batista-García	J Fungi (Basel)
32989088	Increased c-di-GMP Levels Lead to the Production of Alginates of High Molecular Mass in Azotobacter vinelandii.	<i>Azotobacter vinelandii</i> produces the linear exopolysaccharide alginate, a compound of significant biotechnological importance. The biosynthesis of alginate in <i>A. vinelandii</i> and <i>Pseudomonas aeruginosa</i> has several similarities but is regulated somewhat differently in the two microbes. Here, we show that the second messenger cyclic dimeric GMP (c-di-GMP) regulates the production and the molecular mass of alginate in <i>A. vinelandii</i> The hybrid protein MucG, containing conserved GGDEF and EAL domains and N-terminal HAMP and PAS domains, behaved as a c-di-GMP phosphodiesterase (PDE). This activity was found to negatively affect the amount and molecular mass of the polysaccharide formed. On the other hand, among the diguanylate cyclases (DGCs) present in <i>A. vinelandii</i>, <i>Av</i>GReg, a globin-coupled sensor (GCS) DGC that directly binds to oxygen, was identified as the main c-di-GMP-synthesizing contributor to alginate production. Overproduction of <i>Av</i>GReg in the parental strain phenocopied a Δ<i>mucG</i> strain with regard to alginate production and the molecular mass of the polymer. MucG was previously shown to prevent the synthesis of high-molecular-mass alginates in response to reduced oxygen transfer rates (OTRs). In this work, we show that cultures exposed to reduced OTRs accumulated higher levels of c-di-GMP; this finding strongly suggests that at least one of the molecular mechanisms involved in modulation of alginate production and molecular mass by oxygen depends on a c-di-GMP signaling module that includes the PAS domain-containing PDE MucG and the GCS DGC <i>Av</i>GReg.<b>IMPORTANCE</b> c-di-GMP has been widely recognized for its essential role in the production of exopolysaccharides in bacteria, such as alginate produced by <i>Pseudomonas</i> and <i>Azotobacter</i> spp. This study reveals that the levels of c-di-GMP also affect the physical properties of alginate, favoring the production of high-molecular-mass alginates in response to lower OTRs. This finding opens up new alternatives for the design of tailor-made alginates for biotechnological applications.	2020 11	Ahumada-Manuel, Carlos L; Ahumada-Manuel, CL; Ahumada-Manuel; Martínez-Ortiz, Iliana C; Martínez-Ortiz, IC; Martínez-Ortiz; Hsueh, Brian Y; Hsueh, BY; Hsueh; Guzmán, Josefina; Guzmán, J; Guzmán; Waters, Christopher M; Waters, CM; Waters; Zamorano-Sánchez, David; Zamorano-Sánchez, D; Zamorano-Sánchez; Espín, Guadalupe; Espín, G; Espín; Núñez, Cinthia; Núñez, C; Núñez	J Bacteriol
33177665	Dense sampling of bird diversity increases power of comparative genomics.	Whole-genome sequencing projects are increasingly populating the tree of life and characterizing biodiversity<sup>1-4</sup>. Sparse taxon sampling has previously been proposed to confound phylogenetic inference<sup>5</sup>, and captures only a fraction of the genomic diversity. Here we report a substantial step towards the dense representation of avian phylogenetic and molecular diversity, by analysing 363 genomes from 92.4% of bird families-including 267 newly sequenced genomes produced for phase II of the Bird 10,000 Genomes (B10K) Project. We use this comparative genome dataset in combination with a pipeline that leverages a reference-free whole-genome alignment to identify orthologous regions in greater numbers than has previously been possible and to recognize genomic novelties in particular bird lineages. The densely sampled alignment provides a single-base-pair map of selection, has more than doubled the fraction of bases that are confidently predicted to be under conservation and reveals extensive patterns of weak selection in predominantly non-coding DNA. Our results demonstrate that increasing the diversity of genomes used in comparative studies can reveal more shared and lineage-specific variation, and improve the investigation of genomic characteristics. We anticipate that this genomic resource will offer new perspectives on evolutionary processes in cross-species comparative analyses and assist in efforts to conserve species.	2020 11	Feng, Shaohong; Feng, S; Feng; Stiller, Josefin; Stiller, J; Stiller; Deng, Yuan; Deng, Y; Deng; Armstrong, Joel; Armstrong, J; Armstrong; Fang, Qi; Fang, Q; Fang; Reeve, Andrew Hart; Reeve, AH; Reeve; Xie, Duo; Xie, D; Xie; Chen, Guangji; Chen, G; Chen; Guo, Chunxue; Guo, C; Guo; Faircloth, Brant C; Faircloth, BC; Faircloth; Petersen, Bent; Petersen, B; Petersen; Wang, Zongji; Wang, Z; Wang; Zhou, Qi; Zhou, Q; Zhou; Diekhans, Mark; Diekhans, M; Diekhans; Chen, Wanjun; Chen, W; Chen; Andreu-Sánchez, Sergio; Andreu-Sánchez, S; Andreu-Sánchez; Margaryan, Ashot; Margaryan, A; Margaryan; Howard, Jason Travis; Howard, JT; Howard; Parent, Carole; Parent, C; Parent; Pacheco, George; Pacheco, G; Pacheco; Sinding, Mikkel-Holger S; Sinding, MS; Sinding; Puetz, Lara; Puetz, L; Puetz; Cavill, Emily; Cavill, E; Cavill; Ribeiro, Ângela M; Ribeiro, ÂM; Ribeiro; Eckhart, Leopold; Eckhart, L; Eckhart; Fjeldså, Jon; Fjeldså, J; Fjeldså; Hosner, Peter A; Hosner, PA; Hosner; Brumfield, Robb T; Brumfield, RT; Brumfield; Christidis, Les; Christidis, L; Christidis; Bertelsen, Mads F; Bertelsen, MF; Bertelsen; Sicheritz-Ponten, Thomas; Sicheritz-Ponten, T; Sicheritz-Ponten; Tietze, Dieter Thomas; Tietze, DT; Tietze; Robertson, Bruce C; Robertson, BC; Robertson; Song, Gang; Song, G; Song; Borgia, Gerald; Borgia, G; Borgia; Claramunt, Santiago; Claramunt, S; Claramunt; Lovette, Irby J; Lovette, IJ; Lovette; Cowen, Saul J; Cowen, SJ; Cowen; Njoroge, Peter; Njoroge, P; Njoroge; Dumbacher, John Philip; Dumbacher, JP; Dumbacher; Ryder, Oliver A; Ryder, OA; Ryder; Fuchs, Jérôme; Fuchs, J; Fuchs; Bunce, Michael; Bunce, M; Bunce; Burt, David W; Burt, DW; Burt; Cracraft, Joel; Cracraft, J; Cracraft; Meng, Guanliang; Meng, G; Meng; Hackett, Shannon J; Hackett, SJ; Hackett; Ryan, Peter G; Ryan, PG; Ryan; Jønsson, Knud Andreas; Jønsson, KA; Jønsson; Jamieson, Ian G; Jamieson, IG; Jamieson; da Fonseca, Rute R; da Fonseca, RR; da Fonseca; Braun, Edward L; Braun, EL; Braun; Houde, Peter; Houde, P; Houde; Mirarab, Siavash; Mirarab, S; Mirarab; Suh, Alexander; Suh, A; Suh; Hansson, Bengt; Hansson, B; Hansson; Ponnikas, Suvi; Ponnikas, S; Ponnikas; Sigeman, Hanna; Sigeman, H; Sigeman; Stervander, Martin; Stervander, M; Stervander; Frandsen, Paul B; Frandsen, PB; Frandsen; van der Zwan, Henriette; van der Zwan, H; van der Zwan; van der Sluis, Rencia; van der Sluis, R; van der Sluis; Visser, Carina; Visser, C; Visser; Balakrishnan, Christopher N; Balakrishnan, CN; Balakrishnan; Clark, Andrew G; Clark, AG; Clark; Fitzpatrick, John W; Fitzpatrick, JW; Fitzpatrick; Bowman, Reed; Bowman, R; Bowman; Chen, Nancy; Chen, N; Chen; Cloutier, Alison; Cloutier, A; Cloutier; Sackton, Timothy B; Sackton, TB; Sackton; Edwards, Scott V; Edwards, SV; Edwards; Foote, Dustin J; Foote, DJ; Foote; Shakya, Subir B; Shakya, SB; Shakya; Sheldon, Frederick H; Sheldon, FH; Sheldon; Vignal, Alain; Vignal, A; Vignal; Soares, André E R; Soares, AER; Soares; Shapiro, Beth; Shapiro, B; Shapiro; González-Solís, Jacob; González-Solís, J; González-Solís; Ferrer-Obiol, Joan; Ferrer-Obiol, J; Ferrer-Obiol; Rozas, Julio; Rozas, J; Rozas; Riutort, Marta; Riutort, M; Riutort; Tigano, Anna; Tigano, A; Tigano; Friesen, Vicki; Friesen, V; Friesen; Dalén, Love; Dalén, L; Dalén; Urrutia, Araxi O; Urrutia, AO; Urrutia; Székely, Tamás; Székely, T; Székely; Liu, Yang; Liu, Y; Liu; Campana, Michael G; Campana, MG; Campana; Corvelo, André; Corvelo, A; Corvelo; Fleischer, Robert C; Fleischer, RC; Fleischer; Rutherford, Kim M; Rutherford, KM; Rutherford; Gemmell, Neil J; Gemmell, NJ; Gemmell; Dussex, Nicolas; Dussex, N; Dussex; Mouritsen, Henrik; Mouritsen, H; Mouritsen; Thiele, Nadine; Thiele, N; Thiele; Delmore, Kira; Delmore, K; Delmore; Liedvogel, Miriam; Liedvogel, M; Liedvogel; Franke, Andre; Franke, A; Franke; Hoeppner, Marc P; Hoeppner, MP; Hoeppner; Krone, Oliver; Krone, O; Krone; Fudickar, Adam M; Fudickar, AM; Fudickar; Milá, Borja; Milá, B; Milá; Ketterson, Ellen D; Ketterson, ED; Ketterson; Fidler, Andrew Eric; Fidler, AE; Fidler; Friis, Guillermo; Friis, G; Friis; Parody-Merino, Ángela M; Parody-Merino, ÁM; Parody-Merino; Battley, Phil F; Battley, PF; Battley; Cox, Murray P; Cox, MP; Cox; Lima, Nicholas Costa Barroso; Lima, NCB; Lima; Prosdocimi, Francisco; Prosdocimi, F; Prosdocimi; Parchman, Thomas Lee; Parchman, TL; Parchman; Schlinger, Barney A; Schlinger, BA; Schlinger; Loiselle, Bette A; Loiselle, BA; Loiselle; Blake, John G; Blake, JG; Blake; Lim, Haw Chuan; Lim, HC; Lim; Day, Lainy B; Day, LB; Day; Fuxjager, Matthew J; Fuxjager, MJ; Fuxjager; Baldwin, Maude W; Baldwin, MW; Baldwin; Braun, Michael J; Braun, MJ; Braun; Wirthlin, Morgan; Wirthlin, M; Wirthlin; Dikow, Rebecca B; Dikow, RB; Dikow; Ryder, T Brandt; Ryder, TB; Ryder; Camenisch, Glauco; Camenisch, G; Camenisch; Keller, Lukas F; Keller, LF; Keller; DaCosta, Jeffrey M; DaCosta, JM; DaCosta; Hauber, Mark E; Hauber, ME; Hauber; Louder, Matthew I M; Louder, MIM; Louder; Witt, Christopher C; Witt, CC; Witt; McGuire, Jimmy A; McGuire, JA; McGuire; Mudge, Joann; Mudge, J; Mudge; Megna, Libby C; Megna, LC; Megna; Carling, Matthew D; Carling, MD; Carling; Wang, Biao; Wang, B; Wang; Taylor, Scott A; Taylor, SA; Taylor; Del-Rio, Glaucia; Del-Rio, G; Del-Rio; Aleixo, Alexandre; Aleixo, A; Aleixo; Vasconcelos, Ana Tereza Ribeiro; Vasconcelos, ATR; Vasconcelos; Mello, Claudio V; Mello, CV; Mello; Weir, Jason T; Weir, JT; Weir; Haussler, David; Haussler, D; Haussler; Li, Qiye; Li, Q; Li; Yang, Huanming; Yang, H; Yang; Wang, Jian; Wang, J; Wang; Lei, Fumin; Lei, F; Lei; Rahbek, Carsten; Rahbek, C; Rahbek; Gilbert, M Thomas P; Gilbert, MTP; Gilbert; Graves, Gary R; Graves, GR; Graves; Jarvis, Erich D; Jarvis, ED; Jarvis; Paten, Benedict; Paten, B; Paten; Zhang, Guojie; Zhang, G; Zhang	Nature
33137872	The Microbial Composition in Circumneutral Thermal Springs from Chignahuapan, Puebla, Mexico Reveals the Presence of Particular Sulfur-Oxidizing Bacterial and Viral Communities.	Terrestrial thermal springs are widely distributed globally, and these springs harbor a broad diversity of organisms of biotechnological interest. In Mexico, few studies exploring this kind of environment have been described. In this work, we explore the microbial community in Chignahuapan hot springs, which provides clues to understand these ecosystems' diversity. We assessed the diversity of the microorganism communities in a hot spring environment with a metagenomic shotgun approach. Besides identifying similarities and differences with other ecosystems, we achieved a systematic comparison against 11 metagenomic samples from diverse localities. The Chignahuapan hot springs show a particular prevalence of sulfur-oxidizing bacteria from the genera <i>Rhodococcus</i>, <i>Thermomonas</i>, <i>Thiomonas</i>, <i>Acinetobacter</i>, <i>Sulfurovum</i>, and <i>Bacillus</i>, highlighting those that are different from other recovered bacterial populations in circumneutral hot springs environments around the world. The co-occurrence analysis of the bacteria and viruses in these environments revealed that within the <i>Rhodococcus</i>, <i>Thiomonas</i>, <i>Thermonas</i>, and <i>Bacillus</i> genera, the Chignahuapan samples have specific species of bacteria with a particular abundance, such as <i>Rhodococcus erytropholis</i>. The viruses in the circumneutral hot springs present bacteriophages within the order Caudovirales (Siphoviridae, Myoviridae, and Podoviridae), but the family of Herelleviridae was the most abundant in Chignahuapan samples. Furthermore, viral auxiliary metabolic genes were identified, many of which contribute mainly to the metabolism of cofactors and vitamins as well as carbohydrate metabolism. Nevertheless, the viruses and bacteria present in the circumneutral environments contribute to the sulfur cycle. This work represents an exhaustive characterization of a community structure in samples collected from hot springs in Mexico and opens opportunities to identify organisms of biotechnological interest.	2020 Oct	Castelán-Sánchez, Hugo Gildardo; Castelán-Sánchez, HG; Castelán-Sánchez; Meza-Rodríguez, Pablo M; Meza-Rodríguez, PM; Meza-Rodríguez; Carrillo, Erika; Carrillo, E; Carrillo; Ríos-Vázquez, David I; Ríos-Vázquez, DI; Ríos-Vázquez; Liñan-Torres, Arturo; Liñan-Torres, A; Liñan-Torres; Batista-García, Ramón Alberto; Batista-García, RA; Batista-García; Pérez-Rueda, Ernesto; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda; Rojas-Ruíz, Norma Elena; Rojas-Ruíz, NE; Rojas-Ruíz; Dávila-Ramos, Sonia; Dávila-Ramos, S; Dávila-Ramos	Microorganisms
33193246	Gene Regulatory Networks of <i>Penicillium echinulatum</i> 2HH and <i>Penicillium oxalicum</i> 114-2 Inferred by a Computational Biology Approach.	<i>Penicillium echinulatum</i> 2HH and <i>Penicillium oxalicum</i> 114-2 are well-known cellulase fungal producers. However, few studies addressing global mechanisms for gene regulation of these two important organisms are available so far. A recent finding that the 2HH wild-type is closely related to <i>P. oxalicum</i> leads to a combined study of these two species. Firstly, we provide a global gene regulatory network for <i>P. echinulatum</i> 2HH and <i>P. oxalicum</i> 114-2, based on TF-TG orthology relationships, considering three related species with well-known regulatory interactions combined with TFBSs prediction. The network was then analyzed in terms of topology, identifying TFs as hubs, and modules. Based on this approach, we explore numerous identified modules, such as the expression of cellulolytic and xylanolytic systems, where XlnR plays a key role in positive regulation of the xylanolytic system. It also regulates positively the cellulolytic system by acting indirectly through the cellodextrin induction system. This remarkable finding suggests that the XlnR-dependent cellulolytic and xylanolytic regulatory systems are probably conserved in both <i>P. echinulatum</i> and <i>P. oxalicum</i>. Finally, we explore the functional congruency on the genes clustered in terms of communities, where the genes related to cellular nitrogen, compound metabolic process and macromolecule metabolic process were the most abundant. Therefore, our approach allows us to confer a degree of accuracy regarding the existence of each inferred interaction.	2020	Lenz, Alexandre Rafael; Lenz, AR; Lenz; Galán-Vásquez, Edgardo; Galán-Vásquez, E; Galán-Vásquez; Balbinot, Eduardo; Balbinot, E; Balbinot; de Abreu, Fernanda Pessi; de Abreu, FP; de Abreu; Souza de Oliveira, Nikael; Souza de Oliveira, N; Souza de Oliveira; da Rosa, Letícia Osório; da Rosa, LO; da Rosa; de Avila E Silva, Scheila; de Avila E Silva, S; de Avila E Silva; Camassola, Marli; Camassola, M; Camassola; Dillon, Aldo José Pinheiro; Dillon, AJP; Dillon; Perez-Rueda, Ernesto; Perez-Rueda, E; Perez-Rueda	Front Microbiol
33178627	New Insights Into DAEC and EAEC Pathogenesis and Phylogeny.	Diarrheagenic <i>E. coli</i> can be separated into six distinct pathotypes, with enteroaggregative (EAEC) and diffusely-adherent <i>E. coli</i> (DAEC) among the least characterized. To gain additional insights into these two pathotypes we performed whole genome sequencing of ten DAEC, nine EAEC strains, isolated from Mexican children with diarrhea, and one EAEC plus one commensal <i>E. coli</i> strains isolated from an adult with diarrhea and a healthy child, respectively. These genome sequences were compared to 85 <i>E. coli</i> genomes available in public databases. The EAEC and DAEC strains segregated into multiple different clades; however, six clades were heavily or exclusively comprised of EAEC and DAEC strains, suggesting a phylogenetic relationship between these two pathotypes. EAEC strains harbored the typical virulence factors under control of the activator AggR, but also several toxins, bacteriocins, and other virulence factors. DAEC strains harbored several iron-scavenging systems, toxins, adhesins, and complement resistance or Immune system evasion factors that suggest a pathogenic paradigm for this poorly understood pathotype. Several virulence factors for both EAEC and DAEC were associated with clinical presentations, not only suggesting the importance of these factors, but also potentially indicating opportunities for intervention. Our studies provide new insights into two distinct but related diarrheagenic organisms.	2020	Meza-Segura, Mario; Meza-Segura, M; Meza-Segura; Zaidi, Mussaret B; Zaidi, MB; Zaidi; Vera-Ponce de León, Arturo; Vera-Ponce de León, A; Vera-Ponce de León; Moran-Garcia, Nadia; Moran-Garcia, N; Moran-Garcia; Martinez-Romero, Esperanza; Martinez-Romero, E; Martinez-Romero; Nataro, James P; Nataro, JP; Nataro; Estrada-Garcia, Teresa; Estrada-Garcia, T; Estrada-Garcia	Front Cell Infect Microbiol
32822422	Deciphering the functional diversity of DNA-binding transcription factors in Bacteria and Archaea organisms.	DNA-binding Transcription Factors (TFs) play a central role in regulation of gene expression in prokaryotic organisms, and similarities at the sequence level have been reported. These proteins are predicted with different abundances as a consequence of genome size, where small organisms contain a low proportion of TFs and large genomes contain a high proportion of TFs. In this work, we analyzed a collection of 668 experimentally validated TFs across 30 different species from diverse taxonomical classes, including Escherichia coli K-12, Bacillus subtilis 168, Corynebacterium glutamicum, and Streptomyces coelicolor, among others. This collection of TFs, together with 111 hidden Markov model profiles associated with DNA-binding TFs collected from diverse databases such as PFAM and DBD, was used to identify the repertoire of proteins putatively devoted to gene regulation in 1321 representative genomes of Archaea and Bacteria. The predicted regulatory proteins were posteriorly analyzed in terms of their genomic context, allowing the prediction of functions for TFs and their neighbor genes, such as genes involved in virulence, enzymatic functions, phosphorylation mechanisms, and antibiotic resistance. The functional analysis associated with PFAM groups showed diverse functional categories were significantly enriched in the collection of TFs and the proteins encoded by the neighbor genes, in particular, small-molecule binding and amino acid transmembrane transporter activities associated with the LysR family and proteins devoted to cellular aromatic compound metabolic processes or responses to drugs, stress, or abiotic stimuli in the MarR family. We consider that with the increasing data derived from new technologies, novel TFs can be identified and help improve the predictions for this class of proteins in complete genomes. The complete collection of experimentally characterized and predicted TFs is available at http://web.pcyt.unam.mx/EntrafDB/.	2020	Flores-Bautista, Emanuel; Flores-Bautista, E; Flores-Bautista; Hernandez-Guerrero, Rafael; Hernandez-Guerrero, R; Hernandez-Guerrero; Huerta-Saquero, Alejandro; Huerta-Saquero, A; Huerta-Saquero; Tenorio-Salgado, Silvia; Tenorio-Salgado, S; Tenorio-Salgado; Rivera-Gomez, Nancy; Rivera-Gomez, N; Rivera-Gomez; Romero, Alba; Romero, A; Romero; Ibarra, Jose Antonio; Ibarra, JA; Ibarra; Perez-Rueda, Ernesto; Perez-Rueda, E; Perez-Rueda	PLoS One
32573705	Programmatic access to bacterial regulatory networks with regutools.	RegulonDB has collected, harmonized and centralized data from hundreds of experiments for nearly two decades and is considered a point of reference for transcriptional regulation in Escherichia coli K12. Here, we present the regutools R package to facilitate programmatic access to RegulonDB data in computational biology. regutools gives researchers the possibility of writing reproducible workflows with automated queries to RegulonDB. The regutools package serves as a bridge between RegulonDB data and the Bioconductor ecosystem by reusing the data structures and statistical methods powered by other Bioconductor packages. We demonstrate the integration of regutools with Bioconductor by analyzing transcription factor DNA binding sites and transcriptional regulatory networks from RegulonDB. We anticipate that regutools will serve as a useful building block in our progress to further our understanding of gene regulatory networks.	2020 08	Chávez, Joselyn; Chávez, J; Chávez; Barberena-Jonas, Carmina; Barberena-Jonas, C; Barberena-Jonas; Sotelo-Fonseca, Jesus E; Sotelo-Fonseca, JE; Sotelo-Fonseca; Alquicira-Hernández, José; Alquicira-Hernández, J; Alquicira-Hernández; Salgado, Heladia; Salgado, H; Salgado; Collado-Torres, Leonardo; Collado-Torres, L; Collado-Torres; Reyes, Alejandro; Reyes, A; Reyes	Bioinformatics
33457733	The chloroplast genome of the pincushion cactus <i>Mammilllaria haageana</i> subsp. <i>san-a</i> <i>ngelensis</i>, a Mexican endangered species.	The genus <i>Mammillaria</i> occupies diverse habitats and exhibits diverse growth patterns and a large range of morphologies. Most of the species of this genus are used as ornamental plants and are subject to mass habitat loss. Due to these factors, they are being submitted to selective pressure that might affect conservational efforts and management plans. We obtained the 133 gene chloroplast genome as part of the project of sequencing the complete genome of pincushion cactus, including 88 protein-coding genes, 8 rRNA genes, and 37 tRNA genes. The phylogenetic tree indicates the pincushion cactus is a sister species of <i>M. supertexta</i> and <i>M. huitzilopochtli</i>.	2020 May	Hinojosa-Alvarez, Silvia; Hinojosa-Alvarez, S; Hinojosa-Alvarez; Arias, Salvador; Arias, S; Arias; Ferrand, Sylvie; Ferrand, S; Ferrand; Purugganan, Michael D; Purugganan, MD; Purugganan; Rozas, Julio; Rozas, J; Rozas; Rosas, Ulises; Rosas, U; Rosas; Wegier, Ana; Wegier, A; Wegier	Mitochondrial DNA B Resour
32538895	Human CRY1 variants associate with attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder.	Attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a common and heritable phenotype frequently accompanied by insomnia, anxiety, and depression. Here, using a reverse phenotyping approach, we report heterozygous coding variations in the core circadian clock gene cryptochrome 1 in 15 unrelated multigenerational families with combined ADHD and insomnia. The variants led to functional alterations in the circadian molecular rhythms, providing a mechanistic link to the behavioral symptoms. One variant, CRY1Δ11 c.1657+3A>C, is present in approximately 1% of Europeans, therefore standing out as a diagnostic and therapeutic marker. We showed by exome sequencing in an independent cohort of patients with combined ADHD and insomnia that 8 of 62 patients and 0 of 369 controls carried CRY1Δ11. Also, we identified a variant, CRY1Δ6 c.825+1G>A, that shows reduced affinity for BMAL1/CLOCK and causes an arrhythmic phenotype. Genotype-phenotype correlation analysis revealed that this variant segregated with ADHD and delayed sleep phase disorder (DSPD) in the affected family. Finally, we found in a phenome-wide association study involving 9438 unrelated adult Europeans that CRY1Δ11 was associated with major depressive disorder, insomnia, and anxiety. These results defined a distinctive group of circadian psychiatric phenotypes that we propose to designate as "circiatric" disorders.	2020 07	Onat, O Emre; Onat, OE; Onat; Kars, M Ece; Kars, ME; Kars; Gül, Şeref; Gül, Ş; Gül; Bilguvar, Kaya; Bilguvar, K; Bilguvar; Wu, Yiming; Wu, Y; Wu; Özhan, Ayşe; Özhan, A; Özhan; Aydın, Cihan; Aydın, C; Aydın; Başak, A Nazlı; Başak, AN; Başak; Trusso, M Allegra; Trusso, MA; Trusso; Goracci, Arianna; Goracci, A; Goracci; Fallerini, Chiara; Fallerini, C; Fallerini; Renieri, Alessandra; Renieri, A; Renieri; Casanova, Jean-Laurent; Casanova, JL; Casanova; Itan, Yuval; Itan, Y; Itan; Atbaşoğlu, Cem E; Atbaşoğlu, CE; Atbaşoğlu; Saka, Meram C; Saka, MC; Saka; Kavaklı, İ Halil; Kavaklı, İH; Kavaklı; Özçelik, Tayfun; Özçelik, T; Özçelik	J Clin Invest
32467615	Integrating untargeted metabolomics, genetically informed causal inference, and pathway enrichment to define the obesity metabolome.	Obesity and its associated diseases are major health problems characterized by extensive metabolic disturbances. Understanding the causal connections between these phenotypes and variation in metabolite levels can uncover relevant biology and inform novel intervention strategies. Recent studies have combined metabolite profiling with genetic instrumental variable (IV) analysis (Mendelian randomization) to infer the direction of causality between metabolites and obesity, but often omitted a large portion of untargeted profiling data consisting of unknown, unidentified metabolite signals.	2020 07	Hsu, Yu-Han H; Hsu, YH; Hsu; Astley, Christina M; Astley, CM; Astley; Cole, Joanne B; Cole, JB; Cole; Vedantam, Sailaja; Vedantam, S; Vedantam; Mercader, Josep M; Mercader, JM; Mercader; Metspalu, Andres; Metspalu, A; Metspalu; Fischer, Krista; Fischer, K; Fischer; Fortney, Kristen; Fortney, K; Fortney; Morgen, Eric K; Morgen, EK; Morgen; Gonzalez, Clicerio; Gonzalez, C; Gonzalez; Gonzalez, Maria E; Gonzalez, ME; Gonzalez; Esko, Tonu; Esko, T; Esko; Hirschhorn, Joel N; Hirschhorn, JN; Hirschhorn	Int J Obes (Lond)
32363734	Genetic polymorphisms in the cag pathogenicity island of Helicobacter pylori and risk of stomach cancer and high-grade premalignant gastric lesions.	Helicobacter pylori (Hp) infects the stomach of about half of the human population and is strongly associated with the risk of gastric cancer (GC) and its premalignant precursors. The cag pathogenicity island (cagPAI) is a region of the Hp genome encoding for key molecular machinery involved in the infection process. Following a sequencing study, we selected 50 genetic polymorphisms located in seven cagPAI genes and tested their associations with the risk of advanced gastric premalignant lesions and GC in 1220 subjects from various Latin American populations showing the whole spectrum of phenotypes from gastritis to GC. We found that three polymorphisms of cagA are associated with the risk of advanced gastric premalignant lesions (incomplete intestinal metaplasia [ie, Type 2 and 3] or dysplasia), and that six polymorphisms located in cagA, cagL and cagI were associated with risk of GC. When corrected for multiple testing none of the associations were statistically significant. However, scores built by integrating the individual polymorphisms were significantly associated with the risk of advanced gastric premalignant lesions and GC. These results have the potential of establishing markers for risk stratification in the general population, in view of targeting Hp eradication to high-risk population groups.	2020 11	Canzian, Federico; Canzian, F; Canzian; Rizzato, Cosmeri; Rizzato, C; Rizzato; Obazee, Ofure; Obazee, O; Obazee; Stein, Angelika; Stein, A; Stein; Flores-Luna, Lourdes; Flores-Luna, L; Flores-Luna; Camorlinga-Ponce, Margarita; Camorlinga-Ponce, M; Camorlinga-Ponce; Mendez-Tenorio, Alfonso; Mendez-Tenorio, A; Mendez-Tenorio; Vivas, Jorge; Vivas, J; Vivas; Trujillo, Esperanza; Trujillo, E; Trujillo; Jang, Hyejong; Jang, H; Jang; Chen, Wei; Chen, W; Chen; Kasamatsu, Elena; Kasamatsu, E; Kasamatsu; Bravo, Maria Mercedes; Bravo, MM; Bravo; Torres, Javier; Torres, J; Torres; Muñoz, Nubia; Muñoz, N; Muñoz; Kato, Ikuko; Kato, I; Kato	Int J Cancer
32266159	Mucosal Microbiome Profiles Polygenic Irritable Bowel Syndrome in Mestizo Individuals.	Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is the most frequent functional gastrointestinal disorder, worldwide, with a high prevalence among Mestizo Latin Americans. Because several inflammatory disorders appear to affect this population, a further understanding of host genomic background variants, in conjunction with colonic mucosa dysbiosis, is necessary to determine IBS physiopathology and the effects of environmental pressures. Using a simple polygenic model, host single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and the taxonomic compositions of microbiota were compared between IBS patients and healthy subjects. As proof of concept, five IBS-Rome III patients and five healthy controls (HCs) were systematically studied. The human and bacterial intestinal metagenome of each subject was taxonomically annotated and screened for previously annotated IBS, ulcerative colitis, and Crohn's disease-associated SNPs or taxon abundance. Dietary data and fecal markers were collected and associated with the intestinal microbiome. However, more than 1,000 variants were found, and at least 76 SNPs differentiated IBS patients from HCs, as did associations with 4 phyla and 10 bacterial genera. In this study, we found elements supporting a polygenic background, with frequent variants, among the Mestizo population, and the colonic mucosal enrichment of <i>Bacteroides, Alteromonas, Neisseria, Streptococcus</i>, and <i>Microbacterium</i>, may serve as a hallmark for IBS.	2020	Arredondo-Hernández, Rene; Arredondo-Hernández, R; Arredondo-Hernández; Schmulson, Max; Schmulson, M; Schmulson; Orduña, Patricia; Orduña, P; Orduña; López-Leal, Gamaliel; López-Leal, G; López-Leal; Zarate, Angel-Mario; Zarate, AM; Zarate; Alanis-Funes, Gerardo; Alanis-Funes, G; Alanis-Funes; Alcaraz, Luis David; Alcaraz, LD; Alcaraz; Santiago-Cruz, Rubí; Santiago-Cruz, R; Santiago-Cruz; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Villa, Antonio R; Villa, AR; Villa; Ponce-de-León Rosales, Samuel; Ponce-de-León Rosales, S; Ponce-de-León Rosales; López-Vidal, Yolanda; López-Vidal, Y; López-Vidal; Consorcio Mexicano para el Estudio del Microbioma Humano	Front Cell Infect Microbiol
32313686	Inference of natural selection from ancient DNA.	Evolutionary processes, including selection, can be indirectly inferred based on patterns of genomic variation among contemporary populations or species. However, this often requires unrealistic assumptions of ancestral demography and selective regimes. Sequencing ancient DNA from temporally spaced samples can inform about past selection processes, as time series data allow direct quantification of population parameters collected before, during, and after genetic changes driven by selection. In this Comment and Opinion, we advocate for the inclusion of temporal sampling and the generation of paleogenomic datasets in evolutionary biology, and highlight some of the recent advances that have yet to be broadly applied by evolutionary biologists. In doing so, we consider the expected signatures of balancing, purifying, and positive selection in time series data, and detail how this can advance our understanding of the chronology and tempo of genomic change driven by selection. However, we also recognize the limitations of such data, which can suffer from postmortem damage, fragmentation, low coverage, and typically low sample size. We therefore highlight the many assumptions and considerations associated with analyzing paleogenomic data and the assumptions associated with analytical methods.	2020 Apr	Dehasque, Marianne; Dehasque, M; Dehasque; Ávila-Arcos, María C; Ávila-Arcos, MC; Ávila-Arcos; Díez-Del-Molino, David; Díez-Del-Molino, D; Díez-Del-Molino; Fumagalli, Matteo; Fumagalli, M; Fumagalli; Guschanski, Katerina; Guschanski, K; Guschanski; Lorenzen, Eline D; Lorenzen, ED; Lorenzen; Malaspinas, Anna-Sapfo; Malaspinas, AS; Malaspinas; Marques-Bonet, Tomas; Marques-Bonet, T; Marques-Bonet; Martin, Michael D; Martin, MD; Martin; Murray, Gemma G R; Murray, GGR; Murray; Papadopulos, Alexander S T; Papadopulos, AST; Papadopulos; Therkildsen, Nina Overgaard; Therkildsen, NO; Therkildsen; Wegmann, Daniel; Wegmann, D; Wegmann; Dalén, Love; Dalén, L; Dalén; Foote, Andrew D; Foote, AD; Foote	Evol Lett
31665441	CARD 2020: antibiotic resistome surveillance with the comprehensive antibiotic resistance database.	The Comprehensive Antibiotic Resistance Database (CARD; https://card.mcmaster.ca) is a curated resource providing reference DNA and protein sequences, detection models and bioinformatics tools on the molecular basis of bacterial antimicrobial resistance (AMR). CARD focuses on providing high-quality reference data and molecular sequences within a controlled vocabulary, the Antibiotic Resistance Ontology (ARO), designed by the CARD biocuration team to integrate with software development efforts for resistome analysis and prediction, such as CARD's Resistance Gene Identifier (RGI) software. Since 2017, CARD has expanded through extensive curation of reference sequences, revision of the ontological structure, curation of over 500 new AMR detection models, development of a new classification paradigm and expansion of analytical tools. Most notably, a new Resistomes & Variants module provides analysis and statistical summary of in silico predicted resistance variants from 82 pathogens and over 100 000 genomes. By adding these resistance variants to CARD, we are able to summarize predicted resistance using the information included in CARD, identify trends in AMR mobility and determine previously undescribed and novel resistance variants. Here, we describe updates and recent expansions to CARD and its biocuration process, including new resources for community biocuration of AMR molecular reference data.	2020 01	Alcock, Brian P; Alcock, BP; Alcock; Raphenya, Amogelang R; Raphenya, AR; Raphenya; Lau, Tammy T Y; Lau, TTY; Lau; Tsang, Kara K; Tsang, KK; Tsang; Bouchard, Mégane; Bouchard, M; Bouchard; Edalatmand, Arman; Edalatmand, A; Edalatmand; Huynh, William; Huynh, W; Huynh; Nguyen, Anna-Lisa V; Nguyen, AV; Nguyen; Cheng, Annie A; Cheng, AA; Cheng; Liu, Sihan; Liu, S; Liu; Min, Sally Y; Min, SY; Min; Miroshnichenko, Anatoly; Miroshnichenko, A; Miroshnichenko; Tran, Hiu-Ki; Tran, HK; Tran; Werfalli, Rafik E; Werfalli, RE; Werfalli; Nasir, Jalees A; Nasir, JA; Nasir; Oloni, Martins; Oloni, M; Oloni; Speicher, David J; Speicher, DJ; Speicher; Florescu, Alexandra; Florescu, A; Florescu; Singh, Bhavya; Singh, B; Singh; Faltyn, Mateusz; Faltyn, M; Faltyn; Hernandez-Koutoucheva, Anastasia; Hernandez-Koutoucheva, A; Hernandez-Koutoucheva; Sharma, Arjun N; Sharma, AN; Sharma; Bordeleau, Emily; Bordeleau, E; Bordeleau; Pawlowski, Andrew C; Pawlowski, AC; Pawlowski; Zubyk, Haley L; Zubyk, HL; Zubyk; Dooley, Damion; Dooley, D; Dooley; Griffiths, Emma; Griffiths, E; Griffiths; Maguire, Finlay; Maguire, F; Maguire; Winsor, Geoff L; Winsor, GL; Winsor; Beiko, Robert G; Beiko, RG; Beiko; Brinkman, Fiona S L; Brinkman, FSL; Brinkman; Hsiao, William W L; Hsiao, WWL; Hsiao; Domselaar, Gary V; Domselaar, GV; Domselaar; McArthur, Andrew G; McArthur, AG; McArthur	Nucleic Acids Res
32494122	Pranlukast Antagonizes CD49f and Reduces Stemness in Triple-Negative Breast Cancer Cells.	Cancer ﻿stem ﻿cells (CSCs) drive the initiation, maintenance, and therapy response of breast tumors. CD49f is expressed in breast CSCs and functions in the maintenance of stemness. Thus, blockade of CD49f is a potential therapeutic approach for targeting breast CSCs. In the present study, we aimed to repurpose drugs as CD49f antagonists.	2020	Velázquez-Quesada, Inés; Velázquez-Quesada, I; Velázquez-Quesada; Ruiz-Moreno, Angel J; Ruiz-Moreno, AJ; Ruiz-Moreno; Casique-Aguirre, Diana; Casique-Aguirre, D; Casique-Aguirre; Aguirre-Alvarado, Charmina; Aguirre-Alvarado, C; Aguirre-Alvarado; Cortés-Mendoza, Fabiola; Cortés-Mendoza, F; Cortés-Mendoza; de la Fuente-Granada, Marisol; de la Fuente-Granada, M; de la Fuente-Granada; García-Pérez, Carlos; García-Pérez, C; García-Pérez; Pérez-Tapia, Sonia M; Pérez-Tapia, SM; Pérez-Tapia; González-Arenas, Aliesha; González-Arenas, A; González-Arenas; Segura-Cabrera, Aldo; Segura-Cabrera, A; Segura-Cabrera; Velasco-Velázquez, Marco A; Velasco-Velázquez, MA; Velasco-Velázquez	Drug Des Devel Ther
31947717	Evaluation of the Abundance of DNA-Binding Transcription Factors in Prokaryotes.	The ability of bacteria and archaea to modulate metabolic process, defensive response, and pathogenic capabilities depend on their repertoire of genes and capacity to regulate the expression of them. Transcription factors (TFs) have fundamental roles in controlling these processes. TFs are proteins dedicated to favor and/or impede the activity of the RNA polymerase. In prokaryotes these proteins have been grouped into families that can be found in most of the different taxonomic divisions. In this work, the association between the expansion patterns of 111 protein regulatory families was systematically evaluated in 1351 non-redundant prokaryotic genomes. This analysis provides insights into the functional and evolutionary constraints imposed on different classes of regulatory factors in bacterial and archaeal organisms. Based on their distribution, we found a relationship between the contents of some TF families and genome size. For example, nine TF families that represent 43.7% of the complete collection of TFs are closely associated with genome size; i.e., in large genomes, members of these families are also abundant, but when a genome is small, such TF family sizes are decreased. In contrast, almost 102 families (56.3% of the collection) do not exhibit or show only a low correlation with the genome size, suggesting that a large proportion of duplication or gene loss events occur independently of the genome size and that various yet-unexplored questions about the evolution of these TF families remain. In addition, we identified a group of families that have a similar distribution pattern across <i>Bacteria</i> and <i>Archaea</i>, suggesting common functional and probable coevolution processes, and a group of families universally distributed among all the genomes. Finally, a specific association between the TF families and their additional domains was identified, suggesting that the families sense specific signals or make specific protein-protein contacts to achieve the regulatory roles.	2020 01	Sanchez, Israel; Sanchez, I; Sanchez; Hernandez-Guerrero, Rafael; Hernandez-Guerrero, R; Hernandez-Guerrero; Mendez-Monroy, Paul Erick; Mendez-Monroy, PE; Mendez-Monroy; Martinez-Nuñez, Mario Alberto; Martinez-Nuñez, MA; Martinez-Nuñez; Ibarra, Jose Antonio; Ibarra, JA; Ibarra; Pérez-Rueda, Ernesto; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda	Genes (Basel)
31915222	Origin of OXA-23 Variant OXA-239 from a Recently Emerged Lineage of Acinetobacter baumannii International Clone V.	Over the last few decades, carbapenemase-producing <i>Acinetobacter baumannii</i> has become a major cause of nosocomial infections all over the world. However, the genome identity of lineages of this species in Latin America has not been studied as much as in developed countries. Here, through a population genomics approach considering the whole genomes of 148 isolates (almost 40 from Mexico and Honduras), we describe the recent emergence of the lineage sequence type 758 (ST758), which belongs to the international clone V and has spread out to Canada, Mexico, Honduras, and Colombia. Notably, this lineage was found to coexist with other <i>A. baumannii</i> lineages in hospitals in Mexico and Honduras. Isolates from this lineage show considerable variation in antibiotic resistance profiles, but most of them are resistant to carbapenems. Moreover, we found a variety of acquired oxacillinase (OXA) families within this lineage and tracked the very recent inception, and subsequent horizontal transmission, of the OXA-239 carbapenemase. This work highlights the urgent need to investigate recently emerged lineages of this species in Latin America and elsewhere, as these might harbor novel antibiotic resistance genes.<b>IMPORTANCE</b> <i>A. baumannii</i> is a major cause of nosocomial infections all over the world. Although many isolates from developed countries have been studied in terms of their genome sequence, isolates from Latin America have been much less studied. In this study, using a population genomics approach considering the whole genomes of 148 isolates, we describe the recent emergence of the lineage ST758 endemic to Latin America and the inception of the OXA-239 carbapenemase. Our study highlights the urgent need to investigate recently emerged lineages of this species in Latin America and elsewhere, as these might harbor novel antibiotic resistance genes.	2020 01	Graña-Miraglia, Lucia; Graña-Miraglia, L; Graña-Miraglia; Evans, Benjamin A; Evans, BA; Evans; López-Jácome, Luis E; López-Jácome, LE; López-Jácome; Hernández-Durán, Melissa; Hernández-Durán, M; Hernández-Durán; Colín-Castro, Claudia Adriana; Colín-Castro, CA; Colín-Castro; Volkow-Fernández, Patricia; Volkow-Fernández, P; Volkow-Fernández; Cevallos, Miguel A; Cevallos, MA; Cevallos; Franco-Cendejas, Rafael; Franco-Cendejas, R; Franco-Cendejas; Castillo-Ramírez, Santiago; Castillo-Ramírez, S; Castillo-Ramírez	mSphere
31856202	The protein architecture in Bacteria and Archaea identifies a set of promiscuous and ancient domains.	In this work, we describe a systematic comparative genomic analysis of promiscuous domains in genomes of Bacteria and Archaea. A quantitative measure of domain promiscuity, the weighted domain architecture score (WDAS), was used and applied to 1317 domains in 1320 genomes of Bacteria and Archaea. A functional analysis associated with the WDAS per genome showed that 18 of 50 functional categories were identified as significantly enriched in the promiscuous domains; in particular, small-molecule binding domains, transferases domains, DNA binding domains (transcription factors), and signal transduction domains were identified as promiscuous. In contrast, non-promiscuous domains were identified as associated with 6 of 50 functional categories, and the category Function unknown was enriched. In addition, the WDASs of 52 domains correlated with genome size, i.e., WDAS values decreased as the genome size increased, suggesting that the number of combinations at larger domains increases, including domains in the superfamilies Winged helix-turn-helix and P-loop-containing nucleoside triphosphate hydrolases. Finally, based on classification of the domains according to their ancestry, we determined that the set of 52 promiscuous domains are also ancient and abundant among all the genomes, in contrast to the non-promiscuous domains. In summary, we consider that the association between these two classes of protein domains (promiscuous and non-promiscuous) provides bacterial and archaeal cells with the ability to respond to diverse environmental challenges.	2019	Hernandez-Guerrero, Rafael; Hernandez-Guerrero, R; Hernandez-Guerrero; Galán-Vásquez, Edgardo; Galán-Vásquez, E; Galán-Vásquez; Pérez-Rueda, Ernesto; Pérez-Rueda, E; Pérez-Rueda	PLoS One
31921888	Identification of Modules With Similar Gene Regulation and Metabolic Functions Based on Co-expression Data.	Biological systems respond to environmental perturbations and to a large diversity of compounds through gene interactions, and these genetic factors comprise complex networks. In particular, a wide variety of gene co-expression networks have been constructed in recent years thanks to the dramatic increase of experimental information obtained with techniques, such as microarrays and RNA sequencing. These networks allow the identification of groups of co-expressed genes that can function in the same process and, in turn, these networks may be related to biological functions of industrial, medical and academic interest. In this study, gene co-expression networks for 17 bacterial organisms from the COLOMBOS database were analyzed via weighted gene co-expression network analysis and clustered into modules of genes with similar expression patterns for each species. These networks were analyzed to determine relevant modules through a hypergeometric approach based on a set of transcription factors and enzymes for each genome. The richest modules were characterized using PFAM families and KEGG metabolic maps. Additionally, we conducted a Gene Ontology analysis for enrichment of biological functions. Finally, we identified modules that shared similarity through all the studied organisms by using comparative genomics.	2019	Galán-Vásquez, Edgardo; Galán-Vásquez, E; Galán-Vásquez; Perez-Rueda, Ernesto; Perez-Rueda, E; Perez-Rueda	Front Mol Biosci
31560688	Using metabolite profiling to construct and validate a metabolite risk score for predicting future weight gain.	Excess weight gain throughout adulthood can lead to adverse clinical outcomes and are influenced by complex factors that are difficult to measure in free-living individuals. Metabolite profiling offers an opportunity to systematically discover new predictors for weight gain that are relatively easy to measure compared to traditional approaches.	2019	Geidenstam, Nina; Geidenstam, N; Geidenstam; Hsu, Yu-Han H; Hsu, YH; Hsu; Astley, Christina M; Astley, CM; Astley; Mercader, Josep M; Mercader, JM; Mercader; Ridderstråle, Martin; Ridderstråle, M; Ridderstråle; Gonzalez, Maria E; Gonzalez, ME; Gonzalez; Gonzalez, Clicerio; Gonzalez, C; Gonzalez; Hirschhorn, Joel N; Hirschhorn, JN; Hirschhorn; Salem, Rany M; Salem, RM; Salem	PLoS One
31317854	High potassium seawater inhibits ascidian sperm chemotaxis, but does not affect the male gamete chemotaxis of a brown alga.	Male gamete chemotaxis towards the female gamete is a general strategy to facilitate the sexual reproduction in many marine eukaryotes. Biochemical studies of chemoattractants for male gametes of brown algae have advanced in the 1970s and 1980s, but the molecular mechanism of male gamete responses to the attractants remains elusive. In sea urchin, a K+ channel called the tetraKCNG channel plays a fundamental role in sperm chemotaxis and inhibition of K+ efflux through this channel by high K+ seawater blocks almost all cell responses to the chemoattractant. This signalling mechanism could be conserved in marine invertebrates as tetraKCNG channels are conserved in the marine invertebrates that exhibit sperm chemotaxis. We confirmed that high K+ seawater also inhibited sperm chemotaxis in ascidian, Ciona intestinalis (robusta), in this study. Conversely, the male gamete chemotaxis towards the female gamete of a brown alga, Mutimo cylindricus, was preserved even in high K+ seawater. This result indicates that none of the K+ channels is essential for male gamete chemotaxis in the brown alga, suggesting that the signalling mechanism for chemotaxis in this brown alga is quite different from that of marine invertebrates. Correlated to this result, we revealed that the channels previously proposed as homologues of tetraKCNG in brown algae have a distinct domain composition from that of the tetraKCNG. Namely, one of them possesses two repeats of the six transmembrane segments (diKCNG) instead of four. The structural analysis suggests that diKCNG is a cyclic nucleotide-modulated and/or voltage-gated K+ channel.	2019 Aug	Kinoshita-Terauchi, Nana; Kinoshita-Terauchi, N; Kinoshita-Terauchi; Shiba, Kogiku; Shiba, K; Shiba; Terauchi, Makoto; Terauchi, M; Terauchi; Romero, Francisco; Romero, F; Romero; Ramírez-Gómez, Héctor Vincente; Ramírez-Gómez, HV; Ramírez-Gómez; Yoshida, Manabu; Yoshida, M; Yoshida; Motomura, Taizo; Motomura, T; Motomura; Kawai, Hiroshi; Kawai, H; Kawai; Nishigaki, Takuya; Nishigaki, T; Nishigaki	Zygote
31015332	Functional Specialization in <i>Vibrio cholerae</i> Diguanylate Cyclases: Distinct Modes of Motility Suppression and c-di-GMP Production.	<i>Vibrio cholerae</i> biofilm formation and associated motility suppression are correlated with increased concentrations of cyclic diguanylate monophosphate (c-di-GMP), which are in turn driven by increased levels and/or activity of diguanylate cyclases (DGCs). To further our understanding of how c-di-GMP modulators in <i>V. cholerae</i> individually and collectively influence motility with cellular resolution, we determined how DGCs CdgD and CdgH impact intracellular c-di-GMP levels, motility, and biofilm formation. Our results indicated that CdgH strongly influences swim speed distributions; cells in which <i>cdgH</i> was deleted had higher average swim speeds than wild-type cells. Furthermore, our results suggest that CdgD, rather than CdgH, is the dominant DGC responsible for postattachment c-di-GMP production in biofilms. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) biosynthesis genes were found to be extragenic bypass suppressors of the motility phenotypes of strains Δ<i>cdgD</i> and Δ<i>cdgH</i> We compared the motility regulation mechanism of the DGCs with that of Gmd, an LPS O-antigen biosynthesis protein, and discovered that comodulation of c-di-GMP levels by these motility effectors can be positively or negatively cooperative rather than simply additive. Taken together, these results suggest that different environmental and metabolic inputs orchestrate DGC responses of <i>V. cholerae</i> via c-di-GMP production and motility modulation.<b>IMPORTANCE</b> Cyclic diguanylate monophosphate (c-di-GMP) is a broadly conserved bacterial signaling molecule that affects motility, biofilm formation, and virulence. Although it has been known that high intracellular concentrations of c-di-GMP correlate with motility suppression and biofilm formation, how the 53 predicted c-di-GMP modulators in <i>Vibrio cholerae</i> collectively influence motility is not understood in detail. Here we used a combination of plate assays and single-cell tracking methods to correlate motility and biofilm formation outcomes with specific enzymes involved in c-di-GMP synthesis in <i>Vibrio cholerae</i>, the causative agent of the disease cholera.	2019 04	Zamorano-Sánchez, David; Zamorano-Sánchez, D; Zamorano-Sánchez; Xian, Wujing; Xian, W; Xian; Lee, Calvin K; Lee, CK; Lee; Salinas, Mauro; Salinas, M; Salinas; Thongsomboon, Wiriya; Thongsomboon, W; Thongsomboon; Cegelski, Lynette; Cegelski, L; Cegelski; Wong, Gerard C L; Wong, GCL; Wong; Yildiz, Fitnat H; Yildiz, FH; Yildiz	mBio
30252986	The role of gene flow in rapid and repeated evolution of cave-related traits in Mexican tetra, Astyanax mexicanus.	Understanding the molecular basis of repeatedly evolved phenotypes can yield key insights into the evolutionary process. Quantifying gene flow between populations is especially important in interpreting mechanisms of repeated phenotypic evolution, and genomic analyses have revealed that admixture occurs more frequently between diverging lineages than previously thought. In this study, we resequenced 47 whole genomes of the Mexican tetra from three cave populations, two surface populations and outgroup samples. We confirmed that cave populations are polyphyletic and two Astyanax mexicanus lineages are present in our data set. The two lineages likely diverged much more recently than previous mitochondrial estimates of 5-7 mya. Divergence of cave populations from their phylogenetically closest surface population likely occurred between ~161 and 191 k generations ago. The favoured demographic model for most population pairs accounts for divergence with secondary contact and heterogeneous gene flow across the genome, and we rigorously identified gene flow among all lineages sampled. Therefore, the evolution of cave-related traits occurred more rapidly than previously thought, and trogolomorphic traits are maintained despite gene flow with surface populations. The recency of these estimated divergence events suggests that selection may drive the evolution of cave-derived traits, as opposed to disuse and drift. Finally, we show that a key trogolomorphic phenotype QTL is enriched for genomic regions with low divergence between caves, suggesting that regions important for cave phenotypes may be transferred between caves via gene flow. Our study shows that gene flow must be considered in studies of independent, repeated trait evolution.	2018 11	Herman, Adam; Herman, A; Herman; Brandvain, Yaniv; Brandvain, Y; Brandvain; Weagley, James; Weagley, J; Weagley; Jeffery, William R; Jeffery, WR; Jeffery; Keene, Alex C; Keene, AC; Keene; Kono, Thomas J Y; Kono, TJY; Kono; Bilandžija, Helena; Bilandžija, H; Bilandžija; Borowsky, Richard; Borowsky, R; Borowsky; Espinasa, Luis; Espinasa, L; Espinasa; O'Quin, Kelly; O'Quin, K; O'Quin; Ornelas-García, Claudia P; Ornelas-García, CP; Ornelas-García; Yoshizawa, Masato; Yoshizawa, M; Yoshizawa; Carlson, Brian; Carlson, B; Carlson; Maldonado, Ernesto; Maldonado, E; Maldonado; Gross, Joshua B; Gross, JB; Gross; Cartwright, Reed A; Cartwright, RA; Cartwright; Rohner, Nicolas; Rohner, N; Rohner; Warren, Wesley C; Warren, WC; Warren; McGaugh, Suzanne E; McGaugh, SE; McGaugh	Mol Ecol
30338024	First genome sequencing and comparative analyses of <i>Corynebacterium pseudotuberculosis</i> strains from Mexico.	<i>Corynebacterium pseudotuberculosis</i> is a pathogenic bacterium which has been rapidly spreading all over the world, causing economic losses in the agricultural sector and sporadically infecting humans. Six <i>C. pseudotuberculosis</i> strains were isolated from goats, sheep, and horses with distinct abscess locations. For the first time, Mexican genomes of this bacterium were sequenced and studied in silico. All strains were sequenced using Ion Personal Genome Machine sequencer, assembled using Newbler and SPAdes software. The automatic genome annotation was done using the software RAST and in-house scripts for transference, followed by manual curation using Artemis software and BLAST against NCBI and UniProt databases. The six genomes are publicly available in NCBI database. The analysis of nucleotide sequence similarity and the generated phylogenetic tree led to the observation that the Mexican strains are more similar between strains from the same host, but the genetic structure is probably more influenced by transportation of animals between farms than host preference. Also, a putative drug target was predicted and in silico analysis of 46 strains showed two gene clusters capable of differentiating the biovars <i>equi</i> and <i>ovis</i>: Restriction Modification system and CRISPR-Cas cluster.	2018	Parise, Doglas; Parise, D; Parise; Parise, Mariana T D; Parise, MTD; Parise; Viana, Marcus V C; Viana, MVC; Viana; Muñoz-Bucio, Adrian V; Muñoz-Bucio, AV; Muñoz-Bucio; Cortés-Pérez, Yazmin A; Cortés-Pérez, YA; Cortés-Pérez; Arellano-Reynoso, Beatriz; Arellano-Reynoso, B; Arellano-Reynoso; Díaz-Aparicio, Efrén; Díaz-Aparicio, E; Díaz-Aparicio; Dorella, Fernanda A; Dorella, FA; Dorella; Pereira, Felipe L; Pereira, FL; Pereira; Carvalho, Alex F; Carvalho, AF; Carvalho; Figueiredo, Henrique C P; Figueiredo, HCP; Figueiredo; Ghosh, Preetam; Ghosh, P; Ghosh; Barh, Debmalya; Barh, D; Barh; Gomide, Anne C P; Gomide, ACP; Gomide; Azevedo, Vasco A C; Azevedo, VAC; Azevedo	Stand Genomic Sci
29844095	Mexican Carriers of the <i>HNF1A</i> p.E508K Variant Do Not Experience an Enhanced Response to Sulfonylureas.	To assess whether an ethnic-specific variant (p.E508K) in the maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY) gene hepatocyte nuclear factor-1α (<i>HNF1A</i>) found in Mexicans is associated with higher sensitivity to sulfonylureas, as documented in patients with MODY3.	2018 08	Martagón, Alexandro J; Martagón, AJ; Martagón; Bello-Chavolla, Omar Yaxmehen; Bello-Chavolla, OY; Bello-Chavolla; Arellano-Campos, Olimpia; Arellano-Campos, O; Arellano-Campos; Almeda-Valdés, Paloma; Almeda-Valdés, P; Almeda-Valdés; Walford, Geoffrey A; Walford, GA; Walford; Cruz-Bautista, Ivette; Cruz-Bautista, I; Cruz-Bautista; Gómez-Velasco, Donají V; Gómez-Velasco, DV; Gómez-Velasco; Mehta, Roopa; Mehta, R; Mehta; Muñoz-Hernández, Liliana; Muñoz-Hernández, L; Muñoz-Hernández; Sevilla-González, Magdalena; Sevilla-González, M; Sevilla-González; Viveros-Ruiz, Tannia L; Viveros-Ruiz, TL; Viveros-Ruiz; Ordoñez-Sánchez, María Luisa; Ordoñez-Sánchez, ML; Ordoñez-Sánchez; Rodríguez-Guillen, Rosario; Rodríguez-Guillen, R; Rodríguez-Guillen; Florez, Jose C; Florez, JC; Florez; Tusié-Luna, María Teresa; Tusié-Luna, MT; Tusié-Luna; Aguilar-Salinas, Carlos A; Aguilar-Salinas, CA; Aguilar-Salinas; Slim Initiative in Genomic Medicine for the Americas (SIGMA) Type 2 Diabetes Consortium	Diabetes Care
29953444	Genetic contributions to lupus nephritis in a multi-ethnic cohort of systemic lupus erythematous patients.	African Americans, East Asians, and Hispanics with systemic lupus erythematous (SLE) are more likely to develop lupus nephritis (LN) than are SLE patients of European descent. The etiology of this difference is not clear, and this study was undertaken to investigate how genetic variants might explain this effect.	2018	Lanata, Cristina M; Lanata, CM; Lanata; Nititham, Joanne; Nititham, J; Nititham; Taylor, Kimberly E; Taylor, KE; Taylor; Chung, Sharon A; Chung, SA; Chung; Torgerson, Dara G; Torgerson, DG; Torgerson; Seldin, Michael F; Seldin, MF; Seldin; Pons-Estel, Bernardo A; Pons-Estel, BA; Pons-Estel; Tusié-Luna, Teresa; Tusié-Luna, T; Tusié-Luna; Tsao, Betty P; Tsao, BP; Tsao; Morand, Eric F; Morand, EF; Morand; Alarcón-Riquelme, Marta E; Alarcón-Riquelme, ME; Alarcón-Riquelme; Criswell, Lindsey A; Criswell, LA; Criswell	PLoS One
28776255	Transport injuries and deaths in the Eastern Mediterranean Region: findings from the Global Burden of Disease 2015 Study.	Transport injuries (TI) are ranked as one of the leading causes of death, disability, and property loss worldwide. This paper provides an overview of the burden of TI in the Eastern Mediterranean Region (EMR) by age and sex from 1990 to 2015.	2018 May	GBD 2015 Eastern Mediterranean Region Transportation Injuries Collaborators	Int J Public Health
28776240	Diabetes mellitus and chronic kidney disease in the Eastern Mediterranean Region: findings from the Global Burden of Disease 2015 study.	We used findings from the Global Burden of Disease 2015 study to update our previous publication on the burden of diabetes and chronic kidney disease due to diabetes (CKD-DM) during 1990-2015.	2018 May	GBD 2015 Eastern Mediterranean Region Diabetes and Chronic Kidney Disease Collaborators	Int J Public Health
